PAULDING, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1642-23, passed 12-18-2023
State legislation current through 6-30-23
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the Village of
Paulding, as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into
component codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated
as the “Paulding Code of Ordinances”, for which designation “code of
ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter
and section headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the
code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01". Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read as
“and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the Village of Paulding.
   COUNTY. The County of Paulding, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. The same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Village Council of the Village of Paulding.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in this code,
shall denote the Village of Paulding irrespective of its population or legal
classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance or any other place for the sale
of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Paulding, State of Ohio.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above, LEGAL HOLIDAY means
the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968", 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (f)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (g)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (h)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (i)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (j)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (k)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment or repeal of an ordinance does not, except
as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the village are
irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the Council, one amendment without reference to another, the
amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may be given to
each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the latest in date of
enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates language deleted
by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted by an earlier
amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable. Amendments
are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably be put into
simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add
or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Paulding Code
of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Paulding Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Paulding Code of Ordinances,
reads as follows: ....”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Paulding Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
  Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
   Example:
      § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
      Statutory reference:
       Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the State and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the Council, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
      
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
      
34.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS AND EMERGENCY MEDICAL AND AMBULANCE SERVICE
      
35.   PUBLIC RECORDS
      
36.   FINANCE
      
37.   TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Services provided to certain territory upon annexation
   
30.02   Authorizing the Ohio Department of Transportation to undertake bridge
inspection program services
   
30.03   Approving carrying of concealed weapons permit holders to concealed
carry on certain village properties
§ 30.01 SERVICES PROVIDED TO CERTAIN TERRITORY UPON ANNEXATION.
   The services that the village will provide to the territory proposed for
annexation upon annexation are as follows:
   (A)   The provision of water and sewer services pursuant to the compliance
of any existing village rules and regulations regarding the provision of said
water and sewer services;
   (B)   The maintenance of streets, which includes, but is not limited to:
patching, repairing, resurfacing, cleaning, and snow and ice removal, whenever
deemed appropriate according to present village procedures;
   (C)   The maintenance of the building integrity in the area as provided for
by an existing zoning code for the village;
   (D)   The provision of street lighting;
   (E)   The provision of village police protection;
   (F)   The participation in any village Clean-up Week;
   (G)   The provision of leaf collection;
   (H)   The reduction of water and sewer charges based on the inside
corporation rates;
   (I)   The purchase of cemetery plots at inside corporation rates;
   (J)   The reduction of speed limits on certain streets and highways in
accordance with permitted state regulations; and
   (K)   All other municipal services customarily provided to municipal
property owners and residents.
(Ord. 1204-99, passed 4-19-1999)
§ 30.02 AUTHORIZING THE OHIO DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION TO UNDERTAKE BRIDGE
INSPECTION PROGRAM SERVICES.
   (A)   Project description. The village has determined the need for the
described project: bridge inspection program services, including, but not
limited to, routine inspections, element level inspections, critical-findings
reports, fracture critical member inspections, load rating calculations and
reports, weight limits posting sign recommendations, scour assessments, scour
plan of actions, development of fracture critical plans and underwater dive
inspection reports if needed.
   (B)   Consent statement. Being in the public interest, the village gives
consent to the Director of Transportation to complete the above described
project.
   (C)   Cooperation statement. The village shall cooperate with the Director
of Transportation in the above described project as follows.
      (1)   The state shall assume and bear 100% of all of the cost for bridge
inspection program services requested by the village and agreed to by the
state. Eligible bridge inspection services are described in the consultant’s
scope of services task order contract.
      (2)   (a)   The village agrees to pay 100% of the cost of those features
which are not included in the exhibits. Those features may include, but not
limited to, the purchasing and erecting the recommended weight limits postings
signs, the implementation of critical findings reports such as partial or total
bridge closures, the implementation of the scour plan of actions.
         (b)   When recommendations affect public safety, ODOT expects full
implementation by the village. Starting in October 2019, FHWA requires
installing weight limits posting signs within 30 days from the official date of
the approved recommendations. Timely implementation is essential to the success
of this program.
   (D)   Utilities and right-of-way statement. The village agrees that all
rights-of-way required for the described project will be made available in
accordance with current state and federal regulations.
   (E)   Authority to sign. The Village Administrator is hereby empowered on
behalf of the village to enter into contracts with the Director of
Transportation which are necessary to complete the above described project.
(Ord. 1570-19, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 30.03 APPROVING CARRYING OF CONCEALED WEAPONS PERMIT HOLDERS TO CONCEALED
CARRY ON CERTAIN VILLAGE PROPERTIES.
   (A)   The carrying of concealed weapons as described under R.C. § 2923.126
(B)(7) is hereby authorized on village property with the following exceptions,
wherein carrying of a concealed weapon (CCW) is not permitted:
      (1)   Buildings where court is conducted when court is in session or is
scheduled. This includes the village’s Mayor’s Court, currently located at 116
S. Main St., Paulding, OH 45879; and
      (2)   Police Department buildings/facilities.
   (B)   The unlawful possession, use, or discharge of any type of a firearm
within a village park or recreation area is strictly forbidden. The term
FIREARM as used in this section shall have the same meaning as in R.C. §
2923.11. Recreation areas include the village’s water park/municipal pool.
   (C)   All other village areas not prohibited herein or otherwise prohibited
by law are hereby declared permissible CCW zones.
(Ord. 1561-19, passed 3-18-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
Council Rules
   
31.01   Council meetings
   
31.02   The Chair; powers and duties
   
31.03   Members’ duties and privileges
   
31.04   Order of business
   
31.05   Committees
   
31.06   Motions
   
31.07   Miscellaneous rules
COUNCIL RULES
§ 31.01 COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of Council shall be held in the
Council Chambers at 6:30 p.m. on the first and third Monday of each month;
provided, however, that when the regular meeting date so determined falls upon
a legal holiday, the regular meeting is to be held on the next succeeding
business day. Council may, by majority vote, change the day and hour of holding
any regular meeting, or adjourn the same to a day and hour determined by a like
vote of the members present if constituting a quorum.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Generally. Council shall hold such special meetings as may be found
necessary, which may be called by the Clerk upon the written request of the
Mayor or upon the written request of three Councilpersons.
      (2)   Members of Council. Any such vote or request for the calling of a
special meeting shall state the subject or subjects to be considered thereat,
and no other subject or subjects shall be considered except upon the approval
of five or more members of Council in attendance at such special meeting.
Twenty-four hours’ notice in writing of such special meeting, if called by the
Mayor or by three members of Council, shall be given to each member of Council
and to the Mayor by personal service or by delivery thereof at their usual
places of residence, but members of Council may waive such notice by their
attendance at such special meeting.
(Ord. 1142-00, passed 1-2-2001; Ord. 1316-04, passed 5-15-2004)
§ 31.02 THE CHAIR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Roll call. The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the President of
Council, shall take the Chair at the hour appointed for Council to meet and
immediately shall call the Council to order. The roll shall then be called by
the Clerk, who shall enter in the minutes of each meeting the names of members
present thereat. In the absence of a quorum at the time appointed for a
meeting, the members present may, by a majority vote, take a recess or recesses
and cause the Clerk to procure the attendance of absent members.
   (B)   Temporary Chairperson. In case of the absence of the Mayor and
President of Council, the Clerk shall call the Council to order. The Clerk
shall call the roll, and if a quorum is found to be present, the Council shall
proceed to elect by a majority vote a temporary Chairperson of the meeting
until the appearance of the Mayor or President of Council.
   (C)   Substitute Chairperson. The Chair, i.e. Mayor, President of Council or
temporary Chairperson, may call any other member to take his or her place as
the Chair. Such substitution not to continue beyond adjournment.
   (D)   Appeals from decisions of the Chair. The Chair shall preserve decorum
and decide all questions of order, subject to appeal to Council. If any member
transgresses the Rules of Council, the Chair shall, or any member may, call him
or her to order and in the later instance the Chair shall render a decision as
to the point of order. In case of an appeal from a ruling of the Chair, the
question shall be, “Shall the decision of the Chair stand as the decision of
Council?” The Chair shall be sustained unless overruled by a majority vote of
the members of Council present.
   (E)   Votes. All questions shall be stated and put by the Chair as follows.
      (1)   Roll call votes. The Chair shall declare the vote after the Clerk
has announced the number of votes on each side.
      (2)   Viva-voce votes. The Chair shall declare the vote without reference
to the Clerk; if in doubt about a viva-voce vote, the Chair may direct, or any
member may call for, a division of Council, which shall be taken by a rising
vote.
      (3)   Rising vote. The Chair shall not be in order for members to explain
their votes while the vote is being taken.
   (F)   Chair’s power to vote. The Mayor shall have no veto power and shall
have no vote except in the event of a tie vote of members of Council present,
in which case the Mayor shall have the power to vote and his or her vote shall
have the same legal effect as a vote of a member of Council. Any member of
Council who is serving as Chairperson shall have the same power to vote as
other members.
(Ord. 1142-00, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 31.03 MEMBERS’ DUTIES AND PRIVILEGES.
   (A)   Seating arrangement. The President of Council shall occupy the seat by
the Council Clerk. Seats in the Council Chamber shall be arranged in numerical
order and all other Council members shall occupy said seats after drawing by
lot at the beginning of the term.
   (B)   Addressing Chair. Members, when about to speak to a question or making
a motion, shall address the Chair as “Mr. Mayor”, “Mr. President” or “Mr.
Chairperson”, who shall pronounce the name of the member entitled to the floor.
Members addressing Council shall confine themselves to the question under
debate and avoid personalities.
   (C)   Limitation of debate. No member shall be allowed to speak more than
once upon any one subject until every member choosing to speak shall have
spoken, nor more than twice upon the same subject, nor for a time longer than
five minutes, without leave of Council as expressed by a majority vote of the
members present.
   (D)   Voting. Every member present when a question is put shall vote on same
unless Council shall, for special reason, excuse him or her from voting. Said
excuse shall be granted only if the member states reason for the request before
voting begins and the Council, by majority vote of the members present, accepts
them. There shall be no debate upon this question.
   (E)   Division of a question. On demand of any member, a question under
consideration which covers two or more points, shall be divided where the
question admits of such division.
   (F)   Demand for roll call. Any member may demand a roll call vote upon any
question before Council at any time before the decision of said question is
announced by the Chair.
   (G)   Excusal from attendance. Members shall notify the Clerk of any
foreseen absences prior to any scheduled Council or committee meetings.
   (H)   Excusal during meeting. No member shall be excused while Council is in
session except upon permission of the Chair.
(Ord. 1142-00, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 31.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order of business. Order of business will be as follows:
      (1)   Roll call to determine presence of a quorum;
      (2)   Reading of the minutes of the preceding meeting unless such reading
shall be dispensed with by consent of two-thirds of members;
      (3)   Legislation having been filed with the Clerk not later than 4:00
p.m. on the municipal working day next preceding the meeting day;
      (4)   Call of the members in numerical order that each may present
petitions or communications, or offer original motions, orders, ordinances or
resolutions. There shall be no interruption of business under this call. All
such petitions, communications, motions, ordinances and resolutions shall be
filed with the Clerk not later than 4:00 p.m. on the municipal working day next
preceding the meeting day, shall be the duty of the Clerk to include the same
in the agenda of the said meeting day, in their order upon the call. Matters
not filed with the Clerk and introduced upon said call shall not be read or
referred to, but shall be held over until the next meeting, to be placed on the
agenda and taken up on the regular call of the members, unless leave for
immediate consideration be granted by a majority vote of the members present;
      (5)   Second reading of ordinances and resolutions;
      (6)   Third reading of ordinances and resolutions;
      (7)   Reports of Committee of the Whole;
      (8)   Reports of standing committees;
      (9)   Reports of special committees; and
      (10)   Upon motion of any Councilperson, the order of business at any
meeting may be altered by affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members
present.
   (B)   Old business. Following roll call and reading of the minutes of the
preceding meeting or waiver thereof, the business of regular meetings shall
commence at the point where the order of business at the preceding meeting was
interrupted by the adjournment, unless the order of business is altered as
provided in special meetings. The purpose named in the call shall have
precedence over any other business.
(Ord. 1142-00, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 31.05 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Appointment of committees.
      (1)   The following standing committees consisting of three members each
are hereby authorized. Appointment of members to such committees shall be made
by the Mayor:
         (a)   Finance Committee (President of Council is a permanent
Chairperson);
         (b)   Safety Committee;
         (c)   Utilities Committee;
         (d)   Street Committee;
         (e)   Recreation Committee;
         (f)   Ordinance Committee; and
         (g)   Salary and Allowance Committee (consisting of Chairpersons of
Finance Safety and Street Committees).
      (2)   The Mayor may appoint such special or ad hoc committees as he or
she deems necessary provided that matters referred to or pending before a
standing committee may not, without consent of its members, be referred to or
considered by a special committee.
   (B)   Committee of the Whole. The President of Council shall preside when
Council resolves itself into the Committee of the Whole. These Rules of Council
shall govern the Committee of the Whole except that no limit shall be placed on
time or frequency of speaking and that the previous question cannot be moved.
All questions shall be decided by a majority vote of those members present.
When this Committee arises, any measure, together with any amendments thereto,
reported out, shall receive the immediate consideration of Council unless
otherwise ordered placed upon the agenda.
   (C)   Meetings. Committees shall meet on call of the Chairperson, or on
request of two members, communicated to the Village Clerk.
   (D)   Quorum. A majority of members of a committee shall constitute a
quorum.
   (E)   Temporary Chairperson. In the absence of the Chairperson, the member
named next shall act as a temporary Chairperson.
   (F)   Reports. Reports of committees shall be agreed to by a majority
thereof. All documents referred shall be returned to Council with the report of
the committee. Upon motion, and by a majority vote, Council may relieve a
committee of further consideration of any question, and order it placed on the
agenda. When any matter is referred to a committee with instructions to report
at a time named, in the order of reference, failure to report at such time
shall be considered as if reported back with recommendation, unless the time
for report is extended by Council. If no such extension is granted, the
committee shall forthwith return to the Village Clerk the documents pertaining
thereto, and the matter shall take its appropriate place on the agenda.
(Ord. 1142-00, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 31.06 MOTIONS.
   (A)   Motions. When a motion is made, it shall be stated by the Chair before
debate. Any member may demand that it be reduced to writing. A motion shall not
be withdrawn by the mover without the consent of Council. Unless otherwise
required by law, a motion shall be deemed passed if it receives the affirmative
vote of a majority of the members present including the Chair if entitled to
vote thereon.
   (B)   Order of precedence.
      (1)   When a question is before Council, no motion shall be entertained
except the following:
         (a)   To adjourn;
         (b)   To table;
         (c)   The previous question;
         (d)   To postpone to a certain time;
         (e)   To refer;
         (f)   To amend; or
         (g)   To postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Said motions shall have precedence in the foregoing order.
   (C)   Motion to adjourn.
      (1)   Motion to adjourn shall be in order at any time, except as follows:
         (a)   When repeated without intervening business or discussion;
         (b)   When made while another member is speaking;
         (c)   When the previous question has been ordered; or
         (d)   While a vote is being taken.
      (2)   A motion to adjourn is not debatable except as to time to which the
meeting is adjourned.
   (D)   Motion to table. A motion to table shall preclude all amendments or
debate of the subject under consideration. If the motion prevails, the
consideration of the subject may be resumed only upon motion of a member voting
with the majority and with the consent of the majority of the members present.
   (E)   Previous question. The previous question shall be stated in these
words: “Shall debate now close?” The motion shall pass if two-thirds of the
members present shall favor it. If the said motion is ordered, there shall be
no further amendment or debate, but the question shall be put immediately.
   (F)   Motion to postpone. Motions to postpone may be amended as to time,
excepting a motion to postpone indefinitely. If a motion to postpone
indefinitely is carried, the principal question shall be declared lost.
   (G)   Motion to amend. A motion to amend shall be susceptible of but one
amendment. An amendment once rejected may not be moved again in the same form.
   (H)   Motion to suspend rules. A motion to suspend the rule which requires
three readings on three separate days must receive the affirmative vote of
three-fourths of the members elected to Council and shall be debatable. Upon
the passage of such motion, the main question shall be open to debate. All
other rules may be suspended by a majority of members of Council present
without debate.
   (I)   Motion to reconsider. A motion to reconsider a proposal that has been
acted upon favorably must be made before adjournment of the session of Council
at which the vote was taken. A motion to reconsider any other action taken by
Council may be made not later than the next regular meeting after the vote of
Council thereon. In either case, such motion may be made only by a member who
voted with the prevailing side. The concurrence of a majority of the members
present shall be sufficient for reconsideration of a vote. If a motion to
reconsider is lost, it shall not be entertained again.
(Ord. 1142-00, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 31.07 MISCELLANEOUS RULES.
   (A)   Procedure in absence of rule. In the absence of a rule to govern a
point of procedure, reference shall be had to the approved practice in
parliamentary bodies.
   (B)   Decorum in Council Chambers. The Chair shall maintain decorum in
Council Chambers during sessions. Persons, other than members of Council, city
officials and members of the press, shall not be permitted upon the floor of
the Council, or to address Council, except upon introduction by the Chair or a
member of Council. If anyone, other than a city official, desires to speak to a
member of Council while it is in session, the member, if agreeable to the
request, shall leave his or her seat and retire to the rear of the Council
Chambers or elsewhere until the conversation is finished.
   (C)   Rules on readings and suspension of rules. No by-law, ordinance or
resolution of a general or permanent nature, or granting a franchise, or
creating a right, or involving the expenditure of money, or the levying of a
tax, or for the purpose of lease, sale or transfer of property, shall be passed
unless it has been fully and distinctly read on three different days, and with
respect to any such by-law, ordinance or resolution, there shall be no
authority to dispense with this rule, except by a three fourths vote of all
members elected to Council, taken by yeas and nays, on each by-law, resolution
or ordinance, and entered in the minutes. (See R.C. § 731.17.)
   (D)   Emergency measures. All emergency measures shall require three
readings, two by title only if suspended as provided in motion to suspend
rules. A roll call shall first be taken on the emergency clause and then a roll
call on the legislation as a whole. In order to pass as an emergency measure,
the affirmative vote of five members of Council on the emergency clause is
required.
   (E)   Majority. Whenever the term “majority” is used herein, otherwise
unless expressly indicated, it shall be held to mean a majority of those
members elected to Council.
   (F)   Amending rules. A majority vote is required to alter, amend, rescind
or supplement these rules. Any proposed alterations or amendments or
supplements shall be submitted in writing at a regular meeting and placed on
the agenda for the next regular meeting under the order of new business. By
unanimous recorded vote of all members elected to Council, such proposed
alterations, amendments or supplements may be adopted at the meeting at which
the same are submitted.
   (G)   Quorum. The majority of all members elected to Council shall
constitute a quorum.
   (H)   Solicitor. The Solicitor shall, when requested by a member of Council,
give a verbal opinion on any question of law concerning city affairs in open
Council, but he or she may, if he or she deems the matter of importance, take a
reasonable time to submit his or her opinion in writing. He or she shall not be
required to draw any ordinance or resolution except upon a majority vote of the
members.
(Ord. 1142-00, passed 1-2-2001)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
32.01   Tree Commission
   
32.02   Recreation Board
   
32.03   Planning Commission
§ 32.01 TREE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purposes and objectives. The primary purposes and objectives of the
Tree Commission shall include the following:
      (1)   To study the problems and determine the needs of the village
relative to a municipal tree care and tree planting program, and to make such
recommendations from time to time to the Village Council as to desirable
legislation concerning the tree program and activities of the municipality;
      (2)   To establish the recommended species and varieties of trees to be
planted in the treelawns or parks;
      (3)   To disseminate news and information regarding the selection,
planting and maintenance of trees within the corporate limits, whether the same
be on private or public property;
      (4)   To hold regular and special meetings at which the subject of trees
insofar as it relates to the municipality may be discussed by the members of
the Commission, officers and personnel of the municipality and its several
divisions, and all others interested in the tree program;
      (5)   The Commission, when requested by Council, shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or
question coming within the scope of its work;
      (6)   The Commission shall have the power to contract with persons,
agents or companies performing tree related services; and
      (7)   The Commission shall submit an annual report to the Village
Council.
   (B)   Membership and terms.
      (1)   The Commission shall consist of five members all of whom shall be
residents of the village. In addition, the Chairperson of the Street Committee
shall act as a non-voting, advisory member of the Commission.
      (2)   All members of the Commission shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the Village Council.
      (3)   The Chairperson shall preside over all meetings of the Commission
and act as parliamentarian. The Vice Chairperson shall assume the duties of the
Chairperson in his or her absence.
      (4)   Appointments to the Commission shall be for three-year terms,
provided that the term of two of the members appointed to the first Commission
shall be for two years. In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the
terms of any members, his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired
portion of said term.
   (C)   Meetings and procedures. The Commission shall choose its own officers,
make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A
simple majority of the members shall be quorum for the transaction of business.
All plans, findings, reports and recommendations made by the Commission shall
be in writing and designate by name those members of the Commission, approving
or concurring therein, and members who do not so approve or concur therein
shall have the right, as a part of such report, to state their reasons for
refusing to approve or concur.
(Ord. 1108-95, passed 5-15-1995)
§ 32.02 RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   There be and hereby is established a Recreation Board of the village
to supervise and maintain all playgrounds, playfields, swimming pools and
indoor recreation centers as heretofore or hereafter designated and set apart
for such purposes by Council.
   (B)   The power to equip, operate and maintain the recreational facilities
set forth in this section shall be and hereby is vested in said Recreation
Board; subject to the direction and control in all other matters including, but
not limited to, the employment of supervising personnel and the expenditure of
public funds.
   (C)   The Recreation Board shall consist of five persons, two of who shall
be members of the Board of Education of the village or appointed by such Board,
and three of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of Council.
All members of the Recreation Board shall serve for terms of five years except
that the first members shall be appointed for such terms that the term of one
member shall expire annually thereafter. The Mayor shall establish the terms of
the first members appointed and shall cause such terms to appear in the minutes
of Council.
   (D)   The members of the Recreation Board shall elect their own Chairperson
and Secretary to serve for a period of one year. The Recreation Board may adopt
as it deems proper, rules and regulations for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. 889-84, passed 7-16-1984)
§ 32.03 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is established a Village Planning Commission consisting of five
members: the Mayor; Service Director; and three citizens of the village who
shall serve without compensation and who shall be appointed by the Mayor and
approved by the Council for a term of six years, except that the term of one of
the citizen members of the first Commission shall be four years and one for two
years.
   (B)   The powers of the Planning Commission shall be those granted by the
R.C. §§ 713.01 to 713.27 and R.C. § 735.15 as well as all sections of the
Revised Code and of the Constitution of the state now in effect or which may
hereafter be passed and effective and relating to village Planning Commissions
as well as all ordinances passed by Council relating to the Village Planning
Commission.
   (C)   The Village Planning Commission is authorized to control height,
design and location of buildings within it jurisdiction and to issue and make
rules and regulations relating thereto all in accordance with the provisions of
R.C. § 713.04.
(Ord. 571, passed 3-8-1965)
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Salaries, compensation and classifications
Procedures Regarding Village Employees
   
33.15   Accounting for personal use of village owned motor vehicles
   
33.16   Funds to be expended on amenities for village employees
Village Employees
   
33.30   Village Solicitor
   
33.31   Fiscal officer
   
33.32   Combining the offices of Clerk and Treasurer
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 SALARIES, COMPENSATION AND CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Scope. This section is to encompass the following:
      (1)   Regular pay grades, salary ranges and/or hourly rates for all
elected and appointed employees of the village;
      (2)   Establishment of workday, week and overtime compensation;
      (3)   Provide sick leave policy;
      (4)   Establishment of vacation schedules;
      (5)   Method of paying travel allowances;
      (6)   Provide immunization against communicable diseases;
      (7)   Establishment of holiday schedules;
      (8)   Creation of a Salary and Allowance Board of Control; and
      (9)   Provide administration of job classifications and pay schedules.
   (B)   Position classifications and pay scales.
      (1)   Pay scales. Pay scales for elected officials shall be as set by
Council from time to time.
      (2)   Position classifications.
         (a)   The following establishes position classifications for regular
full-time village employees.
Dept. I: Administration
Village Administrator
Finance Director
Utilities Clerk
Office Clerk
Dept. II: Street, Sewer and Water Distribution
Street and Utilities Supervisor
Service Operator I, II, III
Utility Operator
Part-Time Utility Operator
Meter Reader/Utility Worker
Water/Wastewater Superintendent
Water/Wastewater Manager
Water Plant/Service Operator I, II
Part-Time Water Plant Laborer
Part-Time Summer Employee
Dept. IV: Police
Chief of Police
Police Captain
Police Officer I
Police Officer II
Police/Mayor’s Court Clerk
Emergency Services Clerk
Part-Time Police Officer
Police Reserve
 
         (b)   Grades. The following establishes the rate of pay for present
part-time and full-time village employees:
Position Grade
Position                        Grade
Village Administrator           8
Finance Director                6
Utilities Clerk                 4
Office Clerk                    2
Street and Utilities Supervisor 5
Service Operator III            4
Service Operator II             3
Service Operator I              2
Water/Wastewater Superintendent 5
Water/Wastewater Manager        6
Water/Wastewater Operator       2
Water Plant/Service Operator II 4
Water Plant/Service Operator I  3
Meter Reader/Utility Worker     2
Part-Time Summer Employee       2
Chief of Police                 7
Police Captain                  4
Police Officer I                4
Police Officer II               3
Police/Mayor’s Court Clerk    2
Emergency Services Clerk        3
Part-time Police Officer        2
Police Reserve                  2
 
         (c)   Miscellaneous labor. To be determined by the Village
Administrator with approval of the Mayor
         (d)   Recreation Department.
            1.   These rates will be recommended by the Recreation Board with
Council approval:
               a.   Park Manager - based on six-months;
               b.   Pool Manager - based on season; and
               c.   Reservoir Park League Commissioner - based on season.
            2.   These rates will be left to the discretion of the Recreation
Board:
               a.   Head life guard;
               b.   Life guard;
               c.   Pool attendant; and
               d.   Concession workers.
         (e)   Fire Department. These rates will be set by Council from time to
time:
            1.   Fire Chief;
            2.   Assistant Chief;
            3.   Captain - 3;
            4.   Volunteer firefighters;
            5.   Fire Inspection Office;
            6.   Labor and Maintenance;
            7.   Business meeting;
            8.   Work meeting; and
            9.   Investigations.
         (f)   Emergency medical service.
            1.   These rates will be set by Council from time to time:
               a.   Coordinator;
               b.   Assistant Coordinator;
               c.   Paramedic;
               d.   Advanced EMT;
               e.   Basic EMT;
               f.   Trainee;
               g.   Driver; and
               h.   Meeting.
            2.   In addition, anyone accepting the responsibility of eight or
more shifts per month shall be compensated an additional sum per month.
            3.   EMS Coordinator shall be appointed to a six-month probation
period, and then for a two-year period if approved.
            4.   EMS minimum pay shall be one hour of pay.
         (g)   Emergency Services Clerk.
            1.   The Emergency Services Clerk’s position shall be full-time.
The Clerk will be hired by majority vote of the Village Council upon the
recommendation of the Chief of Police.
            2.   The Clerk’s responsibilities and duties shall consist of, but
not limited to:
               a.   Maintain and collect all EMS billings;
               b.   Maintain and collect all Mayor’s Court fines and records;
               c.   Maintain Police Department records as assigned by the Chief
of Police;
               d.   Maintain records as assigned by the Fire Chief;
               e.   Act as Secretary for Mayor, Police Department, Fire
Department and EMS; and
               f.   Act as Secretary for Council.
            3.   The Clerk shall be under the immediate supervision of the
Chief of Police. The Clerk shall receive and maintain a state police officer
certificate within 24 months of hiring date. Loss of certification will
disqualify the Clerk from further employment. The Clerk pay will be established
at level 3 per this section. The Clerk will work at the pleasure of Council and
will be evaluated by the Safety Committee annually to determine if the position
should continue. The Clerk position can be terminated without cause on a
majority vote of Council. The person accepting such position will submit a
signed written agreement stating a full understanding of the duties required
and the qualification for the position and agreeing to the dismissal policy
should the Council see fit.
            4.   The Clerk’s pay and benefits shall be divided among the
following appropriations: 35% - General Fund (Mayor); 35% - EMS; 20% - Police;
and 10% - General Fund (Council).
         (h)   Appointed offices.
            1.   Village Solicitor: as per contract per ordinance; and
            2.   Zoning Inspector: as set by Council from time to time.
   (C)   Placement. Initial placement within each pay classification is
recommended by the department head, based on the employee’s experience, length
of service, qualifications and job performance, subject to the approval of the
Mayor and Council.
   (D)   Sick leave policy.
      (1)   Paid sick leave is a benefit earned and accrued by all full-time
employees. The rate of accrual is 4.6 hours sick leave for each 80 hours
worked. Employees earn sick leave while in active pay status (which includes
time away from work on vacation), but does not earn sick leave while in
inactive pay status (which includes time off work on leave of absence, or on
layoff status.)
      (2)   All use of sick leave must be approved by the appointing authority,
and is authorized for the following situations:
         (a)   Illness, injury or disability of an employee or a member of the
employee’s immediate family;
         (b)   Death of a member of the employee’s immediate family (not to
exceed five working days);
         (c)   Medical, dental or optical examination or treatment of an
employee or a member of the employee’s immediate family;
         (d)   Exposure to a contagious disease which would jeopardize the
health of the employee or coworkers; and
         (e)   Pregnancy and/or childbirth and related conditions (limit of
five days for postnatal care of employee’s wife and family).
      (3)   For purpose of sick leave determination, the following
relationships are considered members of the employee’s immediate family:
         (a)   Spouse, child;
         (b)   Mother, father, sister, brother, grandparent, grandchild;
         (c)   Mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister-in-law, brother-in-law,
daughter-in-law, son-in law; and
         (d)   Legal guardian, or other person who stands in the place of a
parent (loco parentis).
      (4)   In addition, for funeral purposes only, aunts and uncles are
considered members of the employee’s immediate family.
      (5)   Use of sick leave for funerals or other irregular situations will
be subject to the approval of the Mayor and Council on an individual basis.
      (6)   An employee intending to use sick leave must notify his or her
supervisor no later than one-half hour after the beginning of the work shift.
For employees on second or third shift operations, notification must be made at
least two hours before the beginning of the work shift.
      (7)   In order for sick leave benefits to be paid, an absence form must
be completed giving the reason for absence and signed by the employee. Where
medical care has been necessary, a statement from the attending physician will
be required stating the nature of the illness, injury or disability. Upon
approval by the appointing authority, sick leave is charged in units of one
half-hour.
      (8)   If an employee with an illness, injury or disability is still
unable to return to work after all accumulated sick leave has been exhausted,
that employee may request to be placed on a leave of absence or disability
leave for a period of up to one year without forfeiting employment.
      (9)   Any employee who stops working because of a pregnancy-maternity
condition may elect to request a leave of absence without necessarily utilizing
all her accumulated sick leave.
      (10)   Disability leaves, however, require that all sick leave be
exhausted before disability leave is granted. If disability leave is requested,
the employee must be examined by a licensed physician selected by the Village
Administrator, with the cost of such examination being paid by the village.
      (11)   When an employee who has been on disability leave (other than
pregnancy-maternity) wishes to return to work, a written application for re-
instatement must be submitted to the appointing authority. Upon receipt of such
a request, the Village Administrator will direct that a physical examination by
a qualified physician of the Administrator’s choice be made of the employee.
This examination is at the employee’s expense. If the physical affirms that the
employee is able to resume the duties of his or her position, reappointment
will be made to the same or similar position.
      (12)   The amount of accumulated sick leave that shall be allowed to be
transferred when an employee transfers employment from a state agency or
political subdivision of the state to the village within ten years shall be 60
days.
      (13)   Employees who are retiring may convert 100% of their accrued sick
leave (up to a maximum of 30 days, or 240 hours) and 10% of accrued sick leave
hours beyond 240 hours into cash. This is a one-time only benefit; and should
an employee return to service after retirement, no conversion of sick leave
benefits will be made upon the second retirement.
   (E)   Vacations.
      (1)   Each full-time employee shall receive vacation on the following
basis:
 
After 1 year of service   2 weeks (10 work days)
After 8 years of service  3 weeks (15 work days)
After 15 years of service 4 weeks (20 work days)
After 25 years of service 5 weeks (25 work days)
 
      (2)   Vacations are not accumulative. An employee will be reimbursed
vacation pay for vacation time not used.
   (F)   Holidays.
      (1)   All employees of the village who are classified as full-time
employees shall be entitled to receive compensation for the following holidays
at their regular rate of pay:
         (a)   New Years Day;
         (b)   Third Monday in January - Martin Luther King Day;
         (c)   Third Monday in February - President’s Day;
         (d)   Fourth Monday in May - Memorial Day;
         (e)   July 4 - Independence Day;
         (f)   First Monday in September - Labor Day;
         (g)   Second Monday in October - Columbus Day;
         (h)   November 11 - Veterans Day;
         (i)   Thanksgiving;
         (j)   Day following Thanksgiving; and
         (k)   Christmas.
      (2)   In addition, the village offices will close at noon on Good Friday,
on hour earlier on General Election Day and two hours earlier on Christmas Eve.
      (3)   All full-time employees of the village may be entitled to receive
compensation for two additional holidays at their regular rate of pay. These
days shall be designated personal days. Each employee shall be entitled to two
personal days per year. Each year shall begin on the date or anniversary date
that the employee began or resumed employment with the village. Personal days
shall be granted with the approval of the department head. Request for a
personal day which impedes the day-to-day operations of the Village will not be
granted. Personal days are not cumulative and must be taken each year.
Financial compensation shall not be given for unused personal days.
   (G)   Standard work pay, week and overtime.
      (1)   The standard work hours per day and/or week or pay period for each
department is listed below. Standard workweeks are Friday through Thursday, but
may be altered when necessary. The standard work day for the village utilities
worker, exclusive of the Water Plant, shall be 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon and 1:00
to 5:00 p.m.
 
                     Days Hours Wk. Total
Administrative Office 5    8     40
Village Office        5    8     40
Water Department      5    8     40
Street Department     5    8     40
Water Treatment Plant 5    8     40
Police Department     5    8     40
 
      (2)   All hourly employees shall receive overtime at the rate of one and
one-half times their regular hourly rate for the time in excess of their
regular work period. Overtime shall be based on hours paid, not worked.
Vacations and sick leave shall count towards overtime. The Village
Administrator and Police Chief are not eligible for overtime allowances. The
formula for computing regular pay for police shall be their regular pay times
40 hours. The village reserves the right to schedule employees for overtime
when necessary.
      (3)   Water and sewer standby: each employee designated to be on standby
shall receive a sum designated by Council for each week that he or she is on
standby duty. When an employee is sick, the next worker is automatically
designated to be on call for the duration that the employee is sick. An
employee who has to cover for an employee, who is sick, shall be reimbursed at
a sum set by Council per day or any portion of day that he or she is on call.
An employee who has sick a day or any portion of a day shall forfeit the sum if
another employee has to take his or her call. A day shall begin at 4:30 p.m.
      (4)   If an employee intends to take a vacation, a personal day or a
personal leave during his or her on-call period, it is his or her
responsibility to arrange for someone to take his or her call and to make the
Village Administrator aware of his or her replacement.
      (5)   In emergency situations when employees in the Water, Sewer and
Street Departments are required to work for extended periods, meals may be
provided at the discretion of the Village Administrator.
   (H)   Travel allowances and schooling.
      (1)   Officials and employees shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses
incurred on trips out of the village on village business when such expenses are
approved by the Mayor. A person who uses his or her personal car for village
business will be reimbursed on a per-mile basis according to state travel
regulations.
      (2)   When an employee is taking classes in water or wastewater, the
employee will be paid for class time. Any employee taking water or wastewater
classes for the first time in each step, the fees and any other expenses will
be paid for by the village. An employee retaking classes or tests in water or
wastewater will pay for the class fee and any other expenses incurred. In
addition, in the event the employee leaves employment with the village within
five years after the village has paid for approved training expenses, the
employee will be responsible to reimburse the village for the expenses paid by
the village concerning the training. The village may garnish the employee’s
last employment payment to recover the debt owed to the village.
   (I)   New appointees, promotions and demotions in the Police Department.
      (1)   The probationary period for Police Chief and police officers, or
special police officers shall be six months of continuous service. All
candidates for permanent appointment as Chief of Police or police officer must
first undergo physical and psychological testing. All persons seeking permanent
appointments must allow the release of all information as a result of the
physical and psychological testing. The information obtained from any testing
may be presented to the Mayor for evaluation prior to receiving a permanent
appointment.
      (2)   All employees hired shall reside within 15 miles of the village and
have a 20-minute response time within 90 days after they pass the probationary
period. The Police Chief and/or department head must maintain residency inside
the village. This requirement may be waived by an action of Council. The
definition of a RESIDENCE shall mean the residence of a person who has a fixed
habitation without any present intention of removing therefrom, and to which
whenever they are absent they have intention of returning. The definition of
20-MINUTE RESPONSE TIME shall mean the maximum time allowed from the initial
call that the employee receives to report to work to the employee arriving at
the designated work location.
   (J)   New appointees in the Utility Department.
      (1)   All employees seeking employment in the Village Utilities
Department shall first undergo appropriate physical testing as determined by
the Village Administrator and/or the Mayor prior to actual employment. All
persons seeking permanent appointments must allow the release of all
information as a result of the physical testing. The information obtained from
any testing may be presented to the Mayor for evaluation prior to receiving a
permanent appointment.
      (2)   The probationary period for Village Utility employees shall be six
months of continuous service. All employees hired shall reside within 15 miles
of the village and have a 20-minute response time within 90 days after they
pass the probationary period. The Administrator and department heads must
maintain residency inside the village. This requirement may be waived by an
action of Council. The definition of a RESIDENCE shall mean the residence of a
person who has a fixed habitation without any present intention of removing
therefrom, and to which whenever they are absent they have intention of
returning. The definition of 20-MINUTE RESPONSE TIME shall mean the maximum
time allowed from the initial call that the employee receives to report to work
to the employee arriving at the designated work location.
   (K)   Bonds. Each employee of the village shall give bond to the village in
the amount of $5,000, which shall be by means of a blanket bond. Said blanket
bond shall include, but not be limited to, the Mayor, Village Administrator,
Superintendent of Cemeteries, Swimming Pool Manager, Park Manager and League
Commissioner. The Village Administrator, Deputy Clerk and village office
employees shall give additional bond in the amount of $7,500, and the Clerk-
Treasurer shall give bond in the amount of $10,000.
   (L)   Pay periods. All regular employee paychecks are to be issued bi-
weekly.
   (M)   Uniform allowance.
      (1)   Each regular police officer shall receive the sum of $550 per year
as an allowance for the purchase of uniforms and police equipment.
      (2)   Said allowance shall be allocated for payment on January 1 of each
year. Said allowance shall not be paid directly to the individual. Instead, an
invoice must be submitted to the village for the amount of purchase and the
village will submit payment to the place of purchase.
      (3)   Each regular police officer shall be entitled to receive the first
year’s allowance in advance, upon his or her appointment to the Police
Department. Thereafter, at the discretion of the village, the village will omit
the next year’s allowance to compensate for the advance payment of the uniform
allowance. These advance payments are made upon the condition that each new
employee must sign an agreement with the village, whereas he or she agrees that
the amount of said allowance paid, shall be deducted from his or her final pay,
by the village, if he or she leaves the village employment prior to having
completed successfully the designated probationary period, or one full year of
service as the case may be.
      (4)   Each reserve police officer shall receive a sum of $145 as an
allowance for the purchase of uniforms and police equipment. These invoices
must be submitted to the village of payment. Each new reserve police officer,
in order to receive this allowance, must sign an agreement with the village
wherein he or she agrees to repay this allowance if he or she fails to remain
in the village’s services for one year as the case may be. In addition,
employees listed as equipment operators, working supervisors, utility workers,
water plant superintendents and water plant assistants will be furnished five
changes of clothing per week and allowed to use five.
   (N)   Reserve police officer wage rate. A reserve police officer on regular
police duty as a substitute for a regular police officer shall receive a sum
per hour for the time he or she is on duty. Such reserve police duty is to be
only at the discretion of the Mayor.
   (O)   Immunization for communicable diseases. The village employees
including volunteers will be reimbursed for immunizations required against
communicable disease when exposed to same while acting in the line of duty.
   (P)   Establishment of Salary and Allowance Board of Control. This division
(P) will establish a Salary and Allowance Board of Control consisting of the
Chairperson of the Finance, Safety and Street Committees of the Village
Council. The function of this Board will be to negotiate amendments or
interpret the policies of this section. Recommendation will then be made to the
Village Council for approval.
   (Q)   Separation from service. Employees may be dismissed when guilty of:
      (1)   Committing a felony or misdemeanor;
      (2)   Intoxication on the job;
      (3)   Flagrant or persistent insubordination;
      (4)   Conduct subversive of proper order and discipline;
      (5)   Misuse of public funds or records;
      (6)   Falsifying reports or records;
      (7)   Sustained conduct detrimental to the efficiency or morale;
      (8)   Incompetence; and
      (9)   Such other causes as the department head or Mayor with concurrence
of Council deems necessary.
   (R)   Review and amendment to pay plan.
      (1)   The Salary and Allowance Board shall meet annually in October to
set the wage compensation for certain village employees, both full-time and
part-time in the village. The Salary and Allowance Board shall have the
latitude to establish the pay step of each employee within his or her
designated grade. The range of steps that correspond to each grade shall be
established in “Exhibit A” as attached to this section, which is adopted by
reference as if included in full in this division (R). The Salary and Allowance
Board shall notify the Mayor and Council of any changes in pay step status.
      (2)   The Salary and Allowance Board shall provide the Clerk-Treasurer
with a fund designation for the salaries of each village employee.
   (S)   Holiday pay.
      (1)   The holiday will be considered the day on which said holiday is
celebrated if not celebrated on the calendar day on which it falls. Should a
paid holiday fall on Saturday or Sunday, the proceeding Friday or following
Monday, whichever the Village Council designates, will be considered a holiday
for village employees other than the Police Department. If an employee of the
village, other than an employee of the Police Department, is required to work
on a scheduled holiday, he or she shall receive his or her regular holiday
compensation plus a pay rate of one and one-half of his or her regular pay
rate.
      (2)   In the case of the Police Department, the scheduled holiday will be
considered the calendar date in which that particular holiday is observed in
the state. If the scheduled holiday is observed on a date that coincides with
the scheduled day off of the employee of the Police Department, he or she will
be compensated his or her regular holiday compensation plus eight hours at his
or her regular pay rate.
   (T)   Use of sick leave.
      (1)   If it is suspected that the use of sick leave is being abused by an
employee, the Mayor or Village Administrator may require the employee to
furnish a satisfactory affidavit for his or her absence if such absence is
three days or less. If the affidavit is from a licensed physician, the Mayor
and/or Village Administrator reserves the right to select and/or approve the
physician.
      (2)   Any person absent on sick leave for more than three days shall
furnish a certificate from a licensed physician, to be selected and/or approved
by the Mayor or Village Administrator, as to the nature of his or her illness,
or other acceptable reason for his or her absence.
      (3)   Any falsification of an absence form giving the reason for absence
by an employee shall constitute sufficient reason for disciplinary action. Such
disciplinary action may range from a verbal warning to termination of
employment.
      (4)   Absence from work without an approved sick leave request may
constitute an unexcused absence. An unexcused absence may result in
disciplinary action.
   (U)   Emergency work during vacation. An employee who is required to work in
an emergency situation while he or she is on his or her scheduled vacation will
be reimbursed at one and one-half times his or her regular hourly pay rate for
the time worked, or he or she can reschedule vacation time at straight time
(hour for hour) for the time worked.
   (V)   Retirement age.
      (1)   All officers and employees of the village, except elected
officials, who have attained the age of 70 years, shall retire and their
employment terminated within 30 days following the seventieth birthday, except
that Council may authorize by motion the retention of services and extend the
retirement date of any employee of the village for such period or periods
consistent with the provisions of this section as Council may deem necessary or
advisable in the public interest. Such extension of retirement shall be
reviewed at least annually.
      (2)   The Village Administrator shall keep the Village Council informed
of employees who become eligible for retirement under provisions of this
section.
      (3)   Any employee who is within five years or less of PERS retirement
eligibility age and/or 30 years of service credit may opt to pay for their
health insurance and accidental death and dismemberment insurance premiums and
be compensated by the village for such premium payments. Such compensation
shall be made through an hourly increase in salary, in addition to the
employee’s current base grade and step rate of pay. Such compensation shall be
reviewed by the Clerk and be kept in conformance with the rate of insurance
premiums and with any increases or decreases in insurance premiums. The Clerk
shall annually prepare a report listing the amount of insurance premium paid by
each eligible employee for the calendar year and the compensation payment paid
by the village for the same period for each eligible employee. Any eligible
employee may opt to participate or terminate participation in this process by
making a written request to the Clerk.
   (W)   Employees Activity Fund. An Employees Activity Fund that was
established within the General Fund shall have an appropriation of $200 for the
year. The purpose of this account is for purchase of coffee and related items
for employees at the utility office.
   (X)   Municipal Employees Handbook. The Village Administrator is mandated to
compile a handbook of work rules for employees. Such work rules and supplement
shall become effective upon approval by means of a motion of the majority of
Village Council.
(Ord. 1244-01, passed 2-20-2001; Ord. 1288-02, passed 1-21-2003; Ord. 1290-03,
passed 3-17-2003; Ord. 1291-03, passed 5-5-2003; Ord. 1309-03, passed 11-17-
2003; Ord. 1336-05, passed 7-18-2005; Ord. 1343-06, passed 3-20-2006; Ord.
1405-10, passed 5-3-2010; Ord. 1488-14, passed 12-1-2014)
PROCEDURES REGARDING VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
§ 33.15 ACCOUNTING FOR PERSONAL USE OF VILLAGE OWNED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   This section applies to all employees who are employed in a position
that requires them to commute to and from work in a village provided vehicle
for valid noncompensatory business reasons. The following vehicles are excluded
from this policy as they are defined by IRS regulations as “qualified
nonpersonal use vehicles”. A “qualified nonpersonal use vehicle” is any vehicle
the employee is not likely to use more than minimally for personal purposes
because of its design:
      (1)   Clearly marked police and fire vehicles;
      (2)   Any vehicle designed to carry cargo with a loaded gross vehicle
weight over 14,000 pounds;
      (3)   Tractors and other special purpose farm vehicles;
      (4)   Delivery trucks with seating for the driver only, or the driver
plus a folding jump seat;
      (5)   Vans with a loaded gross weight of 14,000 pounds or less that are
clearly marked with permanently affixed decals, special painting or other
advertising associated with your business and has a seat for the driver only
(or the driver and one other person) and either of the following items:
         (a)   Permanent shelving that fits most of the cargo area; or
         (b)   An open cargo area and the van always carries merchandise,
material or equipment used in your trade, business or function.
      (6)   Pickup trucks with a loaded gross vehicle weight of 14,000 pounds
or less that are clearly marked with permanently affixed decals, special
painting or other advertising associated with your business and meets either of
the following requirements:
         (a)   It is equipped with at least one of the following items:
            1.   A hydraulic lift gate;
            2.   Permanent tanks or drums;
            3.   Permanent sideboards or panels that materially raise the level
of the sides of the truck bed; or
            4.   Other heavy equipment (such as an electric generator, welder,
boom or crane used to tow automobiles and other vehicles).
         (b)   It is used primarily to transport a particular type of load
(other than over the public highways) in a construction, manufacturing,
processing, farming, mining, drilling timbering or other similar operation for
which it was specially designed or significantly modified.
   (B)   Employees may be required to commute to and from work in their village
vehicles for valid business reasons. Such employees are not authorized to use
the vehicles for uses other than commuting and de minimis personal use.
   (C)   (1)   Employees who are required by their department head to drive
village vehicles not excluded in the vehicle list in division (A) above, are
required to submit a village “representation regarding use of village vehicle”
form to the Payroll Department by the fifteenth of each month, listing
commuting trips for the prior calendar month.
      (2)   The value of the commuting trips reported on the form will be added
to the employee’s taxable income and taxed accordingly in the next payroll
cycle.
   (D)   Employees who are required by their department head to drive qualified
nonpersonal use vehicles listed in division (C) above, are required to submit a
village “Vehicle Compliance Agreement” annually to their department heads or
designee.
(Ord. 1411-10, passed 10-18-2010)
§ 33.16 FUNDS TO BE EXPENDED ON AMENITIES FOR VILLAGE EMPLOYEES.
   Funds may be expended to purchase meals, refreshments, flowers or other
amenities such as donations for its employees or other persons if it determined
that such expenditures are necessary to perform a function or to exercise a
power expressly conferred upon it by stature or necessarily implied therefrom
and it its determination is not manifestly arbitrary or unreasonable.
(Ord. 1266-02, passed 5-20-2002)
VILLAGE EMPLOYEES
§ 33.30 VILLAGE SOLICITOR.
   (A)   Legal counsel shall be provided to act in civil, contract and criminal
matters for the village, and the person employed as such counsel shall be known
as the Solicitor of the village.
   (B)   The salary of the Solicitor in civil, contract and criminal manner
shall be paid as per contract per ordinance, plus actual out-of-pocket expenses
for long distance telephone calls and postage; mileage at the rate determined
by the Internal Revenue Service; and photocopying. Such Solicitor shall be
employed by the Council of the village for a period not exceeding 20 months.
(Ord. 849-82, passed 12-20-1982; Ord. 872-83, passed 12-19-1983; Ord. 898-84,
passed 12-17-1984; Ord. 926–86, passed 1-21-1986; Ord. 942-86, passed 12-15-
1986; Ord. 963-87, passed 11-16-1987; Ord. 982-88, passed 12-5-1988; Ord. 987A-
89, passed 1-3-1989; Ord. 1004-89, passed 12-4-1989; Ord. 1077-93, passed 9-20-
1993; Ord. 1147-96, passed 9-3-1996; Ord. 1194-98, passed 9-8-1998; Ord. 1236-
00, passed 11-8-2000; Ord. 1285-02, passed 12-2-2002; Ord. 1327-05, passed 1-
18-2005; Ord. 1354-07, passed 2-5-2007; Ord. 1388-08, passed 12-1-2008; Ord.
1400-09, passed 12-7-2009; Ord. 1428-11, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 1437-12, passed
5-7-2012; Ord. 1467-13, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 1511-15, passed 11-16-2015; Ord.
1535-17, passed 5-1-2017; Ord. 1548-18, passed 5-10-2018)
§ 33.31 FISCAL OFFICER.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 733.262, the appointed position of Fiscal Officer
is hereby created.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall be the combined duties of the Village Clerk-
Treasurer and have the powers, duties and functions as provided by the general
laws of the state.
   (C)   The appointed Fiscal Officer may reside outside of the village.
(Ord. 1321-04, passed 7-19-2004)
§ 33.32 COMBINING THE OFFICES OF CLERK AND TREASURER.
   (A)   The offices of Clerk and of Treasurer of the village shall be combined
from and after January 1, 1960.
   (B)   The office so created shall be known as Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 531, passed 1-19-1959)
CHAPTER 34: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS AND
EMERGENCY MEDICAL AND AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
Police Department
   
34.01   Establishing an auxiliary Police Department
   
34.02   Adopting the Manual of Disciplinary Code and Procedures
   
34.03   Standard work week for Police Department personnel
   
34.04   Probationary period
   
34.05   Creating the position of Sergeant
Fire Department
   
34.20   Deployment of service
Emergency Medical and Ambulance Service
   
34.35   Rates and charges
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.01 ESTABLISHING AN AUXILIARY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Appointment of members. There is created within the Village Police
Department an auxiliary police unit, the members of which shall be appointed by
the Mayor.
   (B)   Term of service. Auxiliary police officers shall serve so long as the
Mayor may direct, or until a resignation submitted by such members shall be
accepted by the Mayor.
   (C)   Qualification of members. The members of the auxiliary police may not
be under the age of 18 years at the time of their appointment, and such other
requirements as provided by the rules and regulations provided for in division
(E) below.
   (D)   Control of unit. The Chief of Police shall be the commanding officer
of the auxiliary police unit and shall have control of the assignment,
training, stationing and the direction of work of such unit. The auxiliary
police unit will have all police powers, but shall perform only such police
duties as assigned by the Chief of Police and shall act only when in the
prescribed uniform or portion of uniform. The Chief of Police shall prescribe
the time and place such uniform or portion thereof shall be worn. Such
auxiliary members shall obey the chain of command of the Police Department and
shall take orders from all regular appointed members thereof.
   (E)   Rules and regulations. The Mayor shall prescribe the rules and
regulations for the organization, administration, conduct and control of the
auxiliary police unit.
   (F)   Uniform. The Mayor is authorized to prescribe, by the rules and
regulations, the type of uniform or part thereof which shall be worn by members
of the auxiliary police unit.
   (G)   Service on voluntary basis; compensation. All services performed by
auxiliary police officers shall be on a voluntary basis and within the village,
some duties assigned by the Chief of Police may receive pay.
(Ord. 1169-97, passed 9-15-1997)
§ 34.02 ADOPTING THE MANUAL OF DISCIPLINARY CODE AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Manual of Disciplinary Code and Procedures of the Village Police
Department is hereby approved and adopted effective immediately as an official
village manual for the use of the Village Police Department.
   (B)   A copy of the above-mentioned Manual shall be maintained at the
village utilities office.
(Ord. 946-86, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 34.03 STANDARD WORK WEEK FOR POLICE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   The standard work week for the Chief of Police and Patrol Officer I
personnel shall hereafter be 44 hours.
(Ord. 853-83, passed 3-7-1983)
§ 34.04 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   The probationary period for a Police Chief, police officer or special
police officer provided for in R.C. § 737.17 be and hereby is extended to a
period of one year of continuous service.
   (B)   All candidates for appointment to the positions of Police Chief,
police officer or special police officer shall, prior to such appointment,
first undergo psychological fitness testing of their own choice, acceptable to
the Chief of Police and Mayor, and to undergo such additional psychological
fitness testing as shall be required by the Chief of Police and Mayor by a
licensed and qualified psychiatrist or psychologist who is experienced in the
administering of psychological fitness testing of the nature required for
police work.
   (C)   All police officers and special police officers employed by the
village in either a permanent or probationary capacity shall submit to annual
psychological fitness testing and shall further submit to such additional
periodic psychological fitness testing as shall be required by the Chief of
Police based upon his or her determination that such additional testing is
necessitated by unusual stress or other cause.
(Ord. 837-82, passed 5-17-1982)
§ 34.05 CREATING THE POSITION OF SERGEANT.
   (A)   The position of Police Sergeant is created.
   (B)   This position shall be given pay grade 15 in the village’s salary
schedule.
(Ord. 754-77, passed 6-20-1977)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.20 DEPLOYMENT OF SERVICE.
   On receipt of a request for fire protection or emergency medical services
from appropriate governmental authorities, the officer then in command is
authorized to deploy Fire and EMS Division personnel and equipment to any
location in the state regardless of whether a mutual aid agreement or similar
contract exists between the village and the political subdivision requesting
such assistance.
(Ord. 1287-02, passed 12-16-2002)
EMERGENCY MEDICAL AND AMBULANCE SERVICE
§ 34.35 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The rates for the use of the village’s emergency medical service shall
be set by the Council.
   (B)   These rates may be subject to change as deemed necessary by the
Council by motion passed by a majority of quorum present.
   (C)   Current rates shall be available for inspection at the utilities
office of the village.
(Ord. 795-80, passed 7-21-1980)
CHAPTER 35: PUBLIC RECORDS
Section
   
35.01   Introduction
   
35.02   Public records
   
35.03   Record requests
   
35.04   Costs for public records
   
35.05   E-mail
   
35.06   Failure to respond to a public records request
   
35.07   Police Department
   
35.08   Dissemination of information and official reports
   
35.09   Chief of Police; press releases
   
35.10   State Municipal Records Manual adopted by reference
§ 35.01 INTRODUCTION.
   It is the policy of the village that openness leads to a better informed
citizenry, which leads to better government and better public policy. It is the
policy of the village to strictly adhere to the state’s Public Records Act. All
exemptions (as set forth in R.C. § 149.43(A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(y)) to
openness are to be construed in their narrowest sense and any denial of public
records in response to a valid request must be accompanied by an explanation,
including legal authority, as outlined in the Ohio Revised Code. If the request
is in writing, the explanation must also be in writing.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 35.02 PUBLIC RECORDS.
   (A)   This office, in accordance with the Ohio Revised Code, defines records
as including the following: any document (paper, electronic (including, but not
limited to, e-mail), or other format) that is created or received by, or comes
under the jurisdiction of a public office that documents the organization,
functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations or other activities of
the office. All records of the village are public unless they are specifically
exempt from disclosure under the Ohio Revised Code (R.C. §149.43(A)(1)(a)
through (A)(1)(y)).
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that, as required by state law,
records will be organized and maintained so that they are readily available for
inspection and copying. (See § 35.05 for the e-mail record policy.) Record
retention schedules are to be updated regularly and posted prominently.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 35.03 RECORD REQUESTS.
   Each request for public records should be evaluated for a response using the
following guidelines.
   (A)   Although no specific language is required to make a request, the
requester must at least identify the records requested with sufficient clarity
to allow the public office to identify, retrieve and review the records. If it
is not clear what records are being sought, the records custodian must contact
the requester for clarification, and should assist the requestor in revising
the request by informing the requestor of the manner in which the office keeps
its records.
   (B)   The requester does not have to put a records request in writing, and
does not have to provide his or her identity or the intended use of the
requested public record. It is the village’s general policy that this
information is not to be requested.
   (C)   Public records are to be available for inspection during regular
business hours, with the exception of published holidays. Public records must
be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of public records must be
made available within a reasonable period of time. “Prompt” and “reasonable”
take into account the volume of records requested; the proximity of the
location where the records are stored; and the necessity for any legal review
of the records requested.
   (D)   (1)   Each request should be evaluated for an estimated length of time
required to gather the records. Routine requests for records should be
satisfied immediately if feasible to do so. Routine requests include, but are
not limited to, meeting minutes (both in draft and final form), budgets, salary
information, forms and applications, personnel rosters and the like. If fewer
than 20 pages of copies are requested or if the records are readily available
in an electronic format that can be e-mailed or downloaded easily, these should
be made as quickly as the equipment allows.
      (2)   All requests for public records must either be satisfied or be
acknowledged in writing by the village within three business days following the
village’s receipt of the request. If a request is deemed significantly beyond
“routine”, such as seeking a voluminous number of copies or requiring extensive
research, the acknowledgment must include the following:
         (a)   An estimated number of business days it will take to satisfy the
request;
         (b)   An estimated cost if copies are requested; and
         (c)   Any items within the request that may be exempt from disclosure.
   (E)   Any denial of public records requested must include an explanation,
including legal authority. If portions of a record are public and portions are
exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted and the rest released. If there
are redactions, each redaction must be accompanied by a supporting explanation,
including legal authority.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 35.04 COSTS FOR PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Those seeking public records will be charged only the actual cost of making
copies.
   (A)   The charge for paper copies is $0.05 per page.
   (B)   The charge for downloaded computer files to a compact disc is $1 per
disc.
   (C)   There is no charge for documents e-mailed.
   (D)   Requesters may ask that documents be mailed to them. They will be
charged the actual cost of the postage and mailing supplies.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 35.05 E-MAIL.
   (A)   Documents in electronic mail format are records as defined by the Ohio
Revised Code when their content relates to the business of the office.
   (B)   E-mail is to be treated in the same fashion as records in other
formats and should follow the same retention schedules.
      (1)   Records in private e-mail accounts used to conduct public business
are subject to disclosure, and all employees or representatives of this office
are instructed to retain their e-mails that relate to public business (see §
35.02) and to copy them to their business e-mail accounts and/or to the
village’s records custodian.
      (2)   The records custodian is to treat the e-mails from private accounts
as records of the public office, filing them in the appropriate way, retaining
them per established schedules and making them available for inspection and
copying in accordance with the Public Records Act.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 35.06 FAILURE TO RESPOND TO A PUBLIC RECORDS REQUEST.
   The village recognizes the legal and non-legal consequences of failure to
properly respond to a public records request. In addition to the distrust in
government that failure to comply may cause, the village’s failure to comply
with a request may result in a court ordering the village to comply with the
law and to pay the requester attorney fees and damages.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 35.07 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the Village Police Department to comply,
promptly and completely (as much as practical), with R.C. § 149.43 concerning
public records and access to them.
   (B)   Procedure. The Chief of Police or in his or her absence, the Captain,
in cooperation with the County Prosecutor (for complicated, complex or unusual
requests) shall:
      (1)   Prepare and/or make available for inspection to any person, during
the hours that the County Courthouse is open for business, all public records,
subject to §
35.03;
      (2)   A person who is incarcerated pursuant to a criminal conviction or a
juvenile adjudication is not permitted to inspect or receive copies of any
public record concerning a criminal investigation or prosecution or concerning
what would be a criminal investigation or prosecution if the subject of the
investigation or prosecution were an adult, unless the request to inspect or
obtain a copy of the public record is for the purpose of acquiring information
that is subject to release as a public record under R.C. § 149.43 and the judge
who imposed the sentence or made the adjudication with respect to the person,
or the judge’s successor in office, finds that the information sought in the
public record is necessary to support what appears to be a justifiable claim of
the person;
      (3)   A person may receive copies of public records, at actual cost
($0.05 per page of copy paper, other mediums to be decided on a cost basis at
time of preparation), paid in advance of delivery. Copies shall be either
duplicated on paper or upon the same medium as upon which the record is kept,
at the requesting person’s option. These copies shall be made and furnished
within a reasonable time; and
      (4)   Requests for public records access or copies should be directed to
the Chief of Police. It should preferably be in writing, only to avoid
mistakes. The request should contain a contact telephone number or address for
the person requesting access or copies, so that the Chief of Police or his or
her representative can contact them to make arrangements for the access or
copies.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 35.08 DISSEMINATION OF INFORMATION AND OFFICIAL REPORTS.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of this office that all information and
official reports are normally to be considered confidential in nature. At no
time will a member of this office release any confidential, false or misleading
information to anyone without prior authorization from the Chief of Police or
Captain.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Members of this office may release copies of traffic crash reports
to insurance companies, news media and involved parties, at no cost. However,
they will not be faxed to the media. Only the OH-1 pages will be released. All
statements, supplements or additions are only to be released with the
authorization of the Chief of Police, or Captain.
      (2)   Members may complete and release criminal record checks for adults,
from proper requesting authorities, who provide required documentation. All
juvenile criminal record checks must be obtained at the Juvenile Court.
      (3)   Insurance companies or involved parties may receive copies of
service request or property lists for determination of a reported crime. No
written, taped or other recorded statements, confessions, drawings or other
crime reports will be released to anyone, other than prosecutors, judges,
police officers, probation/patrol officers and human service employees without
the prior consent of the Chief of Police or Captain.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 35.09 CHIEF OF POLICE; PRESS RELEASES.
   (A)   Only the Chief of Police or Captain will give press releases.
   (B)   In the event that a question arises concerning the release of
information that is not addressed in this policy or the public records request
policy, the Chief of Police or Captain will be contacted and their instructions
followed.
   (C)   For the purpose of this policy, CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION is any
information concerning criminal investigations, court actions (other than those
of public record), law enforcement personnel actions, information contained in
any report made by or received by a law enforcement agency, or any sensitive
information obtained by a member of this office.
   (D)   Violation of this policy, concerning the release of information, will
result in sanctions determined by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
§ 35.10 STATE MUNICIPAL RECORDS MANUAL ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Ohio Municipal Records Manual is adopted by reference as if set out at
length herein. A copy is available at the village offices.
(Ord. 1371-08, passed 3-17-2008)
CHAPTER 36: FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Acceptance of relinquished cash
   
36.02   Acceptance of seized and forfeited cash, vehicles and property
   
36.03   Acceptance of seized and forfeited cash and tangible property
   
36.04   Allocation of earnings and losses of the treasury investment account
Fees
   
36.15   Video service provider fee
   
36.16   Fees and costs to pay for computerizing Clerk’s office
Investment Policy
   
36.30   Application
   
36.31   Objectives
   
36.32   Investing authority
   
36.33   Deposits; investments
Funds and Accounts
   
36.45   Coronavirus relief and funding
   
36.46   Water Capital Short-Lived Reserve Asset Fund
   
36.47   Water Capital Debt Reserve Fund
   
36.48   Fund 211-EMS and Fund 217-EMS Contract
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 ACCEPTANCE OF RELINQUISHED CASH.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to accept cash from the
mandatory drug fines imposed on convicted drug offenders in accordance with the
provisions of R.C. § 2925.03(J) and (K).
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby directed to place all cash received into a special
law enforcement mandatory drug fine fund with the Village Clerk-Treasurer to be
used solely for the Police Department law enforcement efforts pertaining to
drug offenses. Said fund shall be separate and apart from any other special
fund previously established.
(Ord. 1005-89, passed 11-15-1989)
§ 36.02 ACCEPTANCE OF SEIZED AND FORFEITED CASH, VEHICLES AND PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to accept cash, vehicles
and other property in accordance with the Contraband Seizure Forfeiture Act,
R.C. § 2933.43; however, any acceptance of real estate by the Mayor shall be
subject to approval by ordinance of Council.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to place all cash received
into a special law enforcement trust fund with the Village Clerk-Treasurer to
be used solely for law enforcement purposes. Said fund shall be separate and
apart from any other special fund previously established.
   (C)   All vehicles and property be assetted to the Police Department to be
used solely for law enforcement purposes, or sold and the proceeds from the
sale deposited in the Special Law Enforcement Trust Fund, as directed by Chief
of Police.
(Ord. 1006-89, passed 11-15-1989)
§ 36.03 ACCEPTANCE OF SEIZED AND FORFEITED CASH AND TANGIBLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to accept cash and other
tangible property from the United States government in accordance with the
Comprehensive Drug Penalty Act of 1984; however, any acceptance of real estate
by the Mayor shall be subject to approval by ordinance of Village Council.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to place all cash received
into a special fund with the Village Clerk to be used solely for law
enforcement purposes.
   (C)   All tangible property assetted to the Police Department is to be used
solely for law enforcement purposes.   
(Ord. 1007-89, passed 11-15-1989)
§ 36.04 ALLOCATION OF EARNINGS AND LOSSES OF THE TREASURY INVESTMENT ACCOUNT.
   (A)   Premiums and discounts on treasury investment purchases shall be
credited to or charged against interest and amortized over the period from
purchase to date of maturity of the security. Gains and losses in the sale of
treasury investment securities shall be credited to or paid from interest.
   (B)   (1)   Net interest realized by the treasury investment account shall
be distributed quarterly as follows: interest on bond funds and special
assessment funds, except waterworks, sewage disposal and revenue bond funds,
shall be paid to the sinking or bond retirement fund; interest on waterworks
funds, sewage funds, traffic funds, parking meter funds, street construction,
maintenance and repair funds, urban renewal federal funds, and any other fund,
the interest on which by the terms of any trust, will or agreement, must be
credited to such fund, shall be paid to each of said respective funds; the
balance of the interest earned on securities held by the treasury investment
account shall be paid to the General Fund.
      (2)   For the purpose of distributing interest each fund shall be
considered as having, during the period for which distribution is to be made,
an average daily balance in the treasury investment account equal to the
averages of the balances each such fund had in said account oh the first day of
each month during the period for which distribution is to be made.
(Ord. 566, passed 6-27-1964)
FEES
§ 36.15 VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
   (A)   In accordance with the requirements of R.C. § 1332.32, all video
service providers providing video service in the village pursuant to a video
service authorization obtained from the Director of the state’s Department of
Commerce shall pay video service provider fees (“VSP fees”) in the amount of 5%
of gross revenues received from providing video service in the village, which
gross revenues base shall include advertising revenues. The VSP fee shall be
paid quarterly, not sooner than 45 days nor later than 60 days after the end of
each calendar quarter.
   (B)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized and directed, upon
receipt of notice from a video service provider that it will begin providing
video service in the village pursuant to a state-issued video service
authorization, to provide such video service provider with notice of the VSP
fee as determined by this Council in division (A) above, which notice may be
given by overnight mail (return receipt), certified mail or other manner of
delivery, no later than ten days from receipt of the provider’s notice.
(Ord. 1367-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 36.16 FEES AND COSTS TO PAY FOR COMPUTERIZING CLERK’S OFFICE.
   (A)   The Council hereby authorizes the Mayor to assess additional fees not
exceeding $10 for each case filed in the Village Mayor’s Court for
computerization of the Mayor’s Court and the Clerk’s records thereof, but said
amount of costs collected shall not exceed the actual cost of computerizing
said Court.
   (B)   The additional fees authorized to be collected herein by the Mayor
shall be paid to the Clerk of the village until sufficient funds are acquired
for computerizing said Court.
(Ord. 1076-93, passed 8-2-1993)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 36.30 APPLICATION.
   This investment policy shall apply to all financial assets, including, but
not limited to, the active and inactive monies of the village.
(Ord. 1579-20, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 36.31 OBJECTIVES.
   The following deposit/investment objectives will apply in the management of
the funds of the village:
   (A)   The primary deposit/investment objective is the preservation of
principal. To meet this objective, the village will only invest in instruments
that are allowed by the Treasurer of State without the need for the Finance
Director to have a certificate from the Center for Public Investment Management
(CPIM); and
   (B)   The second objective is to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet the
fiscal operating requirements of the village.
(Ord. 1579-20, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 36.32 INVESTING AUTHORITY.
   The investing authority for the village shall be the Finance Director of the
village.
(Ord. 1579-20, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 36.33 DEPOSITS; INVESTMENTS.
   The investing authority may deposit and/or invest in the following
instruments, as detailed in R.C. §§ 135.14 and 135.18, as summarized and
restricted below:
   (A)   Interim deposits in the eligible institutions applying for interim
monies as provided in section R.C. § 135.08;
   (B)   No-load money market funds consisting exclusively of obligations
described in R.C. § 135.14(B)(1) or (B)(2) and repurchase agreements secured by
such obligations, provided that investments in securities described in this
division are made only through eligible institutions mentioned in R.C. §
135.03; and
   (C)   The state subdivision’s fund as provided in R.C. § 135.45.
(Ord. 1579-20, passed 5-18-2020)
FUNDS AND ACCOUNTS
§ 36.45 CORONAVIRUS RELIEF AND FUNDING.
   (A)   The Village Finance Director is directed to establish the Local
Coronavirus Relief Fund that shall accept and house the monies appropriated for
this purpose.
   (B)   Any federal CARES Act funding received through the state shall be used
only for those costs that:
      (1)   Are necessary expenditures incurred due to the public health
emergency with respect to the novel coronavirus disease;
      (2)   Were not accounted for in the 2020 annual budget; and
      (3)   Were incurred during the period that begins on March 1, 2020, and
ends on December 30, 2020.
   (C)   Any interest earnings in the fund may be transferred, appropriated and
expended for the purposes of this Fund as allowed by the grantor. All
investment earnings are hereby deemed appropriated for the purposes of
complying with all federal requirements pertaining to investment earnings.
   (D)   The Village Finance Director is hereby authorized to make any
accounting changes to revise the funding source for all contracts or contract
modifications associated with this section.
(Ord. 1582-20, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 36.46 WATER CAPITAL SHORT-LIVED RESERVE ASSET FUND.
   The asset management reserve should be accumulated at the rate of $308.33
per month for the life of the loan. The authority to establish such a Fund has
been granted by of the office of the Auditor of the state.
(Ord. 1551-18, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 36.47 WATER CAPITAL DEBT RESERVE FUND.
   The reserve should be accumulated at the rate of at least one-tenth of the
average annual debt service payment per year until the reserve account balance
is equivalent to an average loan installment. The authority to establish such a
fund has been granted by of the office of the Auditor of the state.
(Ord. 1550-18, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 36.48 FUND 211-EMS AND FUND 217-EMS CONTRACT.
   Monies received by the village and paid into Fund 211-EMS and into Fund 217-
EMS Contract shall be used solely for the use and benefit of the village EMS
and therefore shall be classified as “committed funds” and “special revenue
funds” as those phrases are defined by the Auditor’s office of the state.
(Ord. 1432-12, passed 2-6-2012)
CHAPTER 37: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Income tax increase
   
37.002   Motor vehicle license tax
Lodging Tax
   
37.015   Long title, purpose and enactment
   
37.016   Definitions
   
37.017   Imposition of tax
   
37.018   Payment of tax
   
37.019   Tax to be separately stated and charged
   
37.020   Refusal to pay tax; false information
   
37.021   Transient occupancy registration certificates
   
37.022   Records; inspection
   
37.023   Manner of filing returns
   
37.024   Refunds
   
37.025   Duties of the Tax Commissioner
   
37.026   Investigative powers of Tax Commissioner; confidential information
   
37.027   Failure to collect and report tax; determination by Tax Commissioner
   
37.028   Board of Review
   
37.029   Interest and surcharge
   
37.030   Actions to collect; time limitations
   
37.031   Violations
   
37.032   Collection of tax after termination
Municipal Income Tax
Part I: Authority to Levy Tax; Purposes of Tax; Rate
   
37.045   Authority to levy tax
   
37.046   Purposes of tax; rates
   
37.047   Allocation of funds
   
37.048   Effective date
Part II: Definitions
   
37.060   Definitions
Part III: Income Subject to Tax for Individuals
   
37.075   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
   
37.076   Domicile
   
37.077   Exemption for member or employee of General Assembly and certain
judges
Part IV: Collection at Source
   
37.090   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wage
   
37.091   Collection at source; occasional entrant
   
37.092   Collection at source; casino and VLT
Part V: Income Subject to Net Profits Tax
   
37.105   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
   
37.106   Net profit; income subject to net profits tax; alternative
apportionment
   
37.107   Consolidated federal income tax return
   
37.108   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in the state
   
37.109   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
37.110   Declaration of estimated tax
Part VI: Credit for Tax Paid
   
37.125   Residents subject to income tax in other municipalities
   
37.126   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
   
37.127   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
   
37.128   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
Part VII: Annual Return
   
37.140   Return and payment of tax
   
37.141   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
   
37.142   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
   
37.143   Extension of time to file
   
37.144   Amended returns
   
37.145   Refunds
Part VIII: Penalty, Interest, Fees and Charges
   
37.160   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
Part IX: Audit and Rounding
   
37.175   Audit
   
37.176   Rounding
Part X: Authority and Powers of the Tax Administrator
   
37.190   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
   
37.191   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
   
37.192   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine
   
37.193   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
Part XI: Miscellaneous Provisions
   
37.205   Confidentiality
   
37.206   Fraud
   
37.207   Opinion of Tax Administrator
   
37.208   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
37.209   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
37.210   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
37.211   Adoption of rules
   
37.212   Collection after termination of subchapter
 
   
37.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 37.001 INCOME TAX INCREASE.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide funds for the maintenance of the cemeteries
located within the village, there shall be, and is hereby levied, in addition
to the general income tax as found in §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212, a renewable tax on certain compensation and net profits as hereinafter
provided in this section.
   (B)   Imposition of tax, rate of taxation, on whom levied.
      (1)   The additional annual tax for the purpose specified in division (A)
above is levied at the rate of 0.1% per annum on all salaries, wages,
commissions and other compensation and net profits earned or received as the
same are defined and levied upon in Ord. 1320-04, Ord. 1239-00, Ord. 1239-01,
and Ord. 1324-04, Ord. 1468-13, Ord. 1507-15 (as codified in §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212), Ord. 1527-16 (as codified in §§
37.090 and
37.140), Ord. 1540-17, and as such sections may be amended from time to time
(hereinafter “village income tax ordinances”). Further, this tax is an annual
income tax levied on the income of every person residing in or earning or
receiving income in the municipal corporation and this tax shall be measured by
municipal taxable income. No credit shall be allowed against this tax.
      (2)   This tax is being levied in accordance with the limitations
specified in R.C. Chapter 718. This section hereby incorporates the provisions
of said chapter.
   (C)   Effective period. The tax shall be levied, collected and paid with
respect to said salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and net
profits earned or received on and after July 1, 2020 and in accordance with the
village income tax ordinances. This section shall continue effective insofar as
the levy of said tax is concerned for a period of five years, renewable for the
same term thereafter. Insofar as the collection of said tax, penalties and
interest levied hereunder and actions or proceedings for collecting said tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this section are concerned, it shall
continue effective until all of said tax levied under this section is fully
paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the collection of said tax or
for the punishment of violations of this section have been fully terminated.
   (D)   Allocation of funds. The funds collected under this section shall be
paid into the Cemetery Fund of the village. No part of said tax shall be
appropriated or used to defray the costs of collecting said tax or the costs of
administering and enforcing the provisions of this section as long as the
village is collecting a sufficient amount of income tax under village income
tax ordinances, (as they now exist or as may later be amended from time to
time) to defray such costs. If at any time while this section is in effect,
said tax becomes the only income tax collected by the village, there shall
first be appropriated from the funds derived from said tax such part thereof as
shall be deemed necessary to defray all costs of collecting said tax and of
administering and enforcing the provisions hereof. The balance remaining after
such costs shall be allocated to the Cemetery Fund of the village.
   (E)   Incorporation by reference. All provisions of the village income tax
ordinances and all income tax rules and regulations shall govern and apply to
this section and said tax levied hereunder.
   (F)   Applicability. This section shall not apply to any person or to any
compensation or net profits as to whom or to which It is beyond the power of
the village to impose the tax provided for in this section.
   (G)   Penalties. The penalties found in the village income tax ordinances,
shall apply to this section, such sections which may be amended from time to
time.
   (H)   Authorization of income tax greater than 1%. This section hereby
authorizes the imposition and collection of an income tax that totals greater
than 1%.
   (I)   Effective date. This section shall take effect on July 1, 2020.
(Ord. 1575-19, passed 11-18-2019)
§ 37.002 MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4504.17, the village hereby levies a municipal
motor vehicle license tax which shall be applicable to motor vehicle
registrations for the registration year beginning January 1, 1991.
   (B)   R.C. § 4504.17 reads as follows:
      “For the purpose of paying the costs and expenses of enforcing and
administering the tax provided for in this section: to supplement revenue
already available to municipal corporations under R.C. §§ 4504.04, 4504.06,
4504.171 or 4504.172 of the revised code, and to provide additional revenue for
the purposes set forth in those sections, the legislative authority of any
municipal corporation located in a county that is not levying the tax
authorized by R.C. § 4504.15 may, after April 1, 1989, and regardless of any
tax being levied pursuant to R.C. § 4504.06 or received pursuant to R.C. §
4504.04, levy an annual license tax, that shall be in addition to the tax
levied by R.C. §§ 4503.02, 4503.07 and 4503.18, upon the operation of motor
vehicles on the public roads or highways. The tax shall be at the rate of $5
per motor vehicle on all motor vehicles the district of registration of which,
as defined in R.C. § 4503.10, is in the municipal corporation levying the tax,
and shall be in addition to the taxes at the rates specified in R.C. §§ 4503.04
and 4503.16, subject to reductions in the manner provided in R.C. § 4503.11 and
the exemptions provided in R.C. §§ 4503.16, 4503.17, 4503.171, 4503.41 and
4503.43.
      No municipal corporation shall enact any ordinance, resolution or other
measure levying a tax pursuant to this section on any motor vehicle
registration that would be subject to a resolution previously adopted levying a
county motor vehicle license tax under R.C. § 4504.15 where such resolution has
not become effective solely because of the filing of a referendum petition
pursuant to R.C. §§ 305.31 to 305.41 or because the 30-day period following
adoption of the resolution has not expired.
      No ordinance, resolution or other measure levying a municipal motor
vehicle license tax pursuant to this section shall be enacted as an emergency
measure under R.C. § 731.30 or pursuant to the charter of any municipal
corporation and each such ordinance, resolution or other measure is subject to
a referendum as provided in R.C. §§ 731.29 to 731.41 or by the charter of the
municipal corporation. A municipal motor vehicle license tax levied under this
section shall continue in effect until repealed.”
(R.C. § 4504.17)
(Ord. 958-87, passed 8-17-1987; Ord. 1009-89, passed 12-4-1989)
LODGING TAX
§ 37.015 LONG TITLE, PURPOSE AND ENACTMENT.
   This subchapter is authorized by R.C. §§ 5739.08 et seq. and shall be known
by its short title “Lodging Tax Ordinance of the Village of Paulding”.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.016 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD OF REVIEW. The Board of Review established by and constituted as
provided in the municipal income tax ordinance of the village.
   HOTEL and MOTEL. Every establishment kept, used, maintained, advertised or
held out to the public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered
for a consideration to guests, in which five or more rooms are used for the
accommodation of such guests, whether such rooms are in one or several
structures.
   OPERATOR. The person who is the owner or operator of the hotel or motel and
who furnished the lodging. Whenever the OPERATOR performs his or her functions
through a managing agent of any type or character, other than an employee, the
managing agent shall be deemed an OPERATOR for the purposes of this subchapter,
and shall have the same duties and liabilities as his or her principal.
Compliance with the provisions of this subchapter by either the principal or
managing agent shall, however, be considered to be compliance by both.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, receivers, assignees, trustees in bankruptcy,
estates, firms, partnerships, associations, joint-stock companies, joint
ventures, clubs, societies, corporations, the state and its political
subdivisions, religious or charitable organizations or their employees or
representatives thereof, and combinations of individuals of any form.
   RENT. The consideration received for occupancy valued in money, whether
received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits and
property or services of any kind or nature, and also any amount for which the
occupant is liable for the occupancy without any deduction therefrom
whatsoever.
   TAX COMMISSIONER. The person so designated and appointed by the Mayor and
approved by Council and shall be the same person designated as the Fiscal
Officer (in accordance with R.C. § 733.262) which position was created by Ord.
1321-04, said ordinance having been approved by the Village Council on July 19,
2004.
   TRANSIENT GUEST. A person occupying a room for sleeping accommodations for
less than 30 consecutive days.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.017 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing revenue with which to meet the needs of
the village for the use of the General Fund of the village, for the general
benefit of the village and for lawful governmental expenditures from and after
August 1, 2006, there is hereby levied an excise tax of 3% of the amount paid
or to be paid by the transient guest on transactions in which lodging by a
hotel or motel is or is to be furnished to transient guests.
   (B)   The taxes levied by division (A) above apply and are collectible at
the time the lodging is furnished, regardless of the time when the price is
paid. To assure proper administration of this subchapter, and to prevent the
evasion of the tax, it is presumed that all lodging furnished by hotels and
motels in the village to transient guests is subject to the tax until the
contrary is established.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.018 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Any tax required to be paid by transient guests under the provisions
of this subchapter shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient guests to the
village. Any such tax collected by an operator which has not been paid to the
village shall be deemed a debt owed by the operator to the village. Any person
owing money to the village under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
liable in an action brought in the name of the village for the recovery of such
amount.
   (B)   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be paid by the transient
guest to the operator and each operator shall collect from the transient guest
the full and exact amount of the tax payable on each taxable lodging. If for
any reason the tax due is not paid to the operator, the Tax Commissioner may
require that such tax be paid directly to the Tax Commissioner.
   (C)   (1)   If the transaction is claimed to be exempt, the transient guest
must furnish to the operator, and the operator must obtain from the transient
guest, a certificate specifying the reason that the sale is not legally subject
to the tax. No exemption shall be granted except upon a claim therefore made at
the time the tax is collected and under penalty of perjury, which claim shall
be filed upon a form prescribed by the Tax Commissioner. All claims of
exemption shall be made in the manner prescribed by the Tax Commissioner.
      (2)   The following entities are exempted from paying the lodging tax as
established in this subchapter:
         (a)   The federal government when the room or rooms provided are paid
direct by the federal government and the federal government controls the use of
the room or rooms provided; and
         (b)   Any entity not defined as a “person” pursuant to §
37.016, including, but not limited to, other state governments or their
political subdivisions when the room or rooms provided are paid direct by such
other state government or their political subdivisions and such other state
government or their political subdivisions controls the use of the room or
rooms provided.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.019 TAX TO BE SEPARATELY STATED AND CHARGED.
   The tax to be collected under this subchapter is to be collected and shall
be stated and charged separately from the charge for the lodging and shall be
shown separately on any record thereof, at the time when the occupancy is
arranged or contracted and charged for, and upon every evidence of occupancy or
any bill, statement or charge made for such occupancy issued or delivered by
the operator.
No operator shall advertise or state in any manner, directly or indirectly,
that the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator,
that it will not be added to the amount charged for the lodging or that, if
added, any part will be refunded, except in the manner provided in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.020 REFUSAL TO PAY TAX; FALSE INFORMATION.
   No transient guests shall refuse to pay the full exact tax as required by
this subchapter or present to the operator false evidence indicating that the
lodging as furnished is not subject to the tax.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.021 TRANSIENT OCCUPANCY REGISTRATION CERTIFICATES.
   Within 30 days after the effective date of this subchapter, or within 30
days after commencing business, whichever is later, each operator furnishing
lodging to a transient guest shall register the hotel or motel with the Tax
Commissioner and obtain a transient occupancy registration certificate, to be
posted at all times in a conspicuous place on the premises. Such certificate
shall, among other things, state the following:
   (A)   The name of the operator;
   (B)   The address of the hotel or motel;
   (C)   The date on which the certificate was issued; and
   (D)   The words: “This transient occupancy registration certificate
signifies that the person named on the face hereof has fulfilled the
requirements of the hotel-motel tax ordinance by registering with the Tax
Commissioner of the village for the purpose of collecting from transient guests
the hotel-motel tax and remitting said tax to the Tax Commissioner of the
village. This certificate does not constitute a permit or license.”
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.022 RECORDS; INSPECTION.
   Each operator shall keep complete and accurate records of lodging furnished,
together with a record of the tax collected thereon, which shall be the amount
due under this subchapter, and shall keep all invoices, bills and other
pertinent documents. If the operator furnishes lodging to any person or entity
not subject to the tax, the operator’s records shall contain a copy of the
certificate of exemption required by §
37.018. Such records and other documents shall be open during business hours to
the inspection of the Tax Commissioner and shall be preserved for a period of
four years, unless the Tax Commissioner, in writing, consents to their
destruction within that period.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.023 MANNER OF FILING RETURNS.
   (A)   Each operator shall, on or before the thirtieth day following the end
of each calendar quarter thereafter, make and file a return for the preceding
calendar quarter, on forms prescribed by the Tax Commissioner, showing the
receipts from furnishing lodging, the amount of tax due from the operator to
the village for the period covered by the return, and such other information as
the Tax Commissioner deems necessary for the proper administration of this
subchapter. All claims for exemption from the tax filed by transient guests
with the operator during the reporting period shall be filed with the return.
Returns shall be filed with the Tax Commissioner and payment of the amount of
tax shown to be due thereon shall accompany such return.
   (B)   Upon cessation of business for any reason, returns and payments shall
be due immediately.
   (C)   The returns shall be signed by the operator or his or her authorized
agent.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.024 REFUNDS.
   No refunds for taxes erroneously paid shall be made unless the claimant
establishes his or her right thereto by written record showing entitlement
thereto and makes a claim, in writing, on forms furnished by the Tax
Commissioner, stating, under penalty of perjury, the specific grounds upon
which the claim is founded. Such claim shall be filed with the Tax Commissioner
within three years of the date of payment and no refund shall be allowed
thereafter.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.025 DUTIES OF THE TAX COMMISSIONER.
   The Tax Commissioner shall collect and receive the tax imposed by this
subchapter and shall be the same person designated as the Village Fiscal
Officer.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.026 INVESTIGATIVE POWERS OF TAX COMMISSIONER; CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Commissioner, or any authorized employee, is hereby authorized
to examine the books, papers, records and income tax returns of any operator
subject to the tax levied by this subchapter for the purpose of verifying the
accuracy of any return made, or, if no return was made, for the purpose of
ascertaining the tax due under this subchapter. Each person shall furnish, upon
the written request of the Tax Commissioner or any duly authorized agent or
employee of the Tax Commissioner, the means, facilities and opportunity for
making the examinations and investigations authorized therein.
   (B)   The Tax Commissioner is hereby authorized to order any person to
appear at the Tax Commissioner’s office and to examine such person, under oath,
concerning any transaction or receipt of any transaction which was or should
have been returned for taxation under this subchapter. For such purposes, the
Tax Commissioner may compel the production of books, papers, records and income
tax returns and the attendance of any person before the Tax Commissioner,
whether as a party or a witness, whenever it is believed that such person has
knowledge of such transaction or receipt of such transaction pertinent to such
inquiry.
   (C)   Any information gained as a result of any return, investigation,
hearing or verification required or authorized by this subchapter shall be
confidential, except for official purposes or in accordance with judicial
order. No person shall otherwise divulge such information.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.027 FAILURE TO COLLECT AND REPORT TAX; DETERMINATION BY TAX COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   If any operator fails or refuses to collect the tax imposed by this
subchapter, to file a return and to make a remittance of such tax or any
portion thereof, as required by this subchapter, the Tax Commissioner shall
proceed in such a manner as is deemed best to obtain information on which to
base the estimate of the tax due. When the Tax Commissioner has such
information as he or she can obtain, upon which to base the assessment of any
tax imposed by this subchapter and payable by any operator who has failed or
refused to collect the same, to file a return and to make a remittance of the
proper amount thereof, he or she shall proceed to determine and assess against
such operator the tax, interest and/or penalty provided for in this subchapter.
   (B)   In any case wherein such determination is made, the Tax Commissioner
shall give notice of the amount to be assessed by serving it personally or by
registered or certified mail upon such operator. Such operator may, within ten
days after the serving or mailing of such notice, make application, in writing,
to the Tax Commissioner for a hearing on the amount assessed. If an application
by the operator is not made within the time prescribed, the tax and penalty
determined by the Tax Commissioner shall become final and conclusive and
immediately due and payable. If such application is made, the Tax Commissioner
shall give not less than five days’ written notice in the manner prescribed in
this section to the operator to show cause at a time and place fixed in such
notice why such amounts specified therein should not be fixed for such tax and
penalty. At any such hearing, the operator may appear and offer evidence why
such specified tax and penalty should not be so fixed. After such hearing, the
Tax Commissioner shall determine the proper tax to be remitted and shall
thereafter give written notice to the operator, in the manner prescribed in
this section, of such determination and the amount of such tax and penalty. The
amount determined to be due shall be payable within 15 days.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.028 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The Board of Review constituted under §
37.016 means the Board of Review established by and constituted as provided in
the municipal income tax ordinance of the village and shall have the same
powers, duties and jurisdiction under this subchapter as under said ordinance.
All hearings and appeals authorized and allowed by such section shall be
authorized and allowed under this subchapter and shall be conducted in
conformity with such section.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.029 INTEREST AND SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Original delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any tax imposed
by this subchapter within the time required shall pay a penalty equal to 10% of
the amount of the tax, in addition to the tax.
   (B)   Continued delinquency. Any operator who fails to remit any delinquent
remittance on or before a period of 30 days following the date on which the
remittance first became delinquent shall pay a delinquency penalty equal to 10%
of the amount of the tax and previous penalty, in addition to the tax and the
10% penalty first imposed. An additional penalty equal to 10% of the total tax
and penalty of the previous 30-day period shall be added for each successive
30-day period that the operator remains delinquent.
   (C)   Fraud. If the Tax Commissioner determines that the nonpayment of any
remittance due under this subchapter is due to fraud, a penalty equal to 25% of
the amount of the tax shall be added thereto, in addition to the penalty stated
in divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Interest. In addition to the previous penalties imposed, any operator
who fails to remit any tax imposed by this subchapter shall pay interest at the
rate of 0.5%, or fraction thereof, on the amount of the tax, exclusive of
penalties, from the date on which the remittance first became delinquent until
paid.
   (E)   Abatement. Upon recommendation of the Tax Commissioner, the Board of
Review may abate penalties or interest, or both. Upon appeal from the refusal
of the Tax Commissioner to recommend abatement of any penalty or interest, the
Board may nevertheless abate the penalty or interest, or both.
   (F)   Penalties during pendency of hearing of appeal. No penalty provided
under the terms of divisions (A) and (B) above shall be collected during the
pendency of any hearing provided for herein, nor during the pendency of any
appeal to the Board of Review provided for herein.
   (G)   Responsibility of filing taxes. The officer or employee having control
or supervision, or charged with the responsibility of filing the return and
making the payment, shall be personally liable for failure or refusal to file
the return or pay the taxes, penalty and interest due as required herein. The
dissolution, bankruptcy or reorganization of any such employer does not
discharge an officer’s or employee’s liability for a prior failure of such
business to file a return or pay such taxes, penalties and interest due.
   (H)   Payment. Payment is considered received for penalty and interest
purposes by the postmark if mailed, or by the date actually hand delivered to
the Village Fiscal Officer (Tax Department) with the requirement of a “date
received” stamp in the latter case.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.030 ACTIONS TO COLLECT; TIME LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Any tax required to be paid by a transient guest under this subchapter
shall be deemed a debt owed by the transient guest to the village. Any such tax
collected by an operator which has not been paid to the village shall be deemed
a debt owed by the operator to the village. Any person owing money to the
village under this subchapter shall be liable in an action brought in the name
of the village for recovery of such amount of tax, together with any interest
and penalties thereon.
   (B)   Except in the case of fraud, no assessment shall be made or issued
against an operator or transient guest for any tax imposed by or pursuant to
this subchapter more than five years after the return date for the period in
which the lodging was furnished, or more than four years after the return for
such period is filed, whichever is later.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 37.031 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return required by this
subchapter;
      (2)   Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
      (3)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties or interest
imposed by this subchapter;
      (4)   Fail, neglect or refuse to collect from any transient guest the tax
imposed by this subchapter;
      (5)   Refuse to permit the Tax Commissioner or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers and income tax returns
concerning any transaction, or the receipts from any transaction, subject to
the tax levied by this subchapter;
      (6)   Fail to appear before the Tax Commissioner and to produce books,
records, papers or income tax returns concerning any transaction, or the
receipts from any transaction, on which a tax is imposed by this subchapter;
      (7)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Commissioner any information with
respect to any transactions, or the receipts from any transactions, upon which
the tax is imposed by this subchapter;
      (8)   Fail to comply with any of the provisions of this subchapter or any
order or subpoena of the Tax Commissioner authorized hereby; or
      (9)   Attempt to do anything whatever to avoid the payment of the whole
or any part of the tax, penalty or interest imposed by this subchapter.
   (B)   All prosecutions under this section must be commenced within the
periods stipulated in R.C. § 718.06.
   (C)   The failure of any operator to receive or procure any return form
shall not excuse him or her from making any return, from filing such return or
from paying the tax imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.032 COLLECTION OF TAX AFTER TERMINATION.
   (A)   This subchapter shall continue effective, insofar as the levy of taxes
is concerned, until repealed. Insofar as the collection of any tax levied
hereunder and any action or proceeding for collecting such tax or enforcing any
of the provisions of this subchapter is concerned, this subchapter shall
continue effective until any tax levied during such period is fully paid and
any suit or prosecution for the collection of such tax or for the punishment of
any violation of this subchapter has been fully terminated, subject to the
limitations contained in §§
37.029 and
37.030.
   (B)   Returns for the last year or portion thereof in which this tax is
levied shall be filed within one month from the last day such levy ends. Any
tax shown to be due thereon which is not paid and collected under §
37.023 shall be paid with such return.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006)
MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX
PART I: AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
§ 37.045 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this
subchapter are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution.
The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this subchapter are
deemed to be levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the
provisions and limitations of R.C. § 718. This subchapter is deemed to
incorporate the provisions of R.C. § 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The village shall tax income at a uniform
rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.046 PURPOSES OF TAX; RATES.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purpose of emergency services, debt reduction
(loans, notes and/or bonds) and capital improvements, for parks and recreation
and for use by the General Fund as deemed necessary by Council for the village.
   (B)   For the purposes specified in § 1 of Ord. 1239-00, on and after
January 1, 2014, an annual tax of 1% per annum shall be imposed upon the
hereinafter-specified income. Such income tax shall be imposed upon the
following income:
      (1)   All salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation, and other
income earned on and after January 1, 2014, by residents of the village;
      (2)   All salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and other
for work done or services performed or rendered or activities conducted within
the village;
      (3)   (a)   The portion attributable to the village on the net profits
earned on and after January 1, 2014, of all resident associations or
professions or other activities, derived from sales made, work done or other
services performed or rendered and business or other activities conducted in
the village; and
         (b)   The portion of the distributive share of the net profits earned
on or after January 1, 2014, of all nonresident associations, professions or
other activities, derived from sales made, work done, services performed or
rendered and business and other activities conducted in the village, whether or
not such association, profession or activity has an office or place of business
in the village.
      (4)   (a)   On the portion attributable to the village of the net profits
earned on or after January 1, 2014, of all nonresident associations,
professions or other activities, derived from sales made, work done, services
performed or rendered and business and other activities conducted in the
village, whether or not such association, profession, or activity has an office
or place of business in the village; and
         (b)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits
earned on or before January 1, 2014, of a resident partner or owner of a
nonresident association not attributable to the village and not levied against
such association.
      (5)   On the portion attributable to the village, of the net profits
earned on and after January 1, 2014, of all corporations derived from sales
made, work done, services performed or rendered and business or other
activities conducted in the village, whether or not such corporations have an
office or place of business in the village; and
      (6)   The tax shall be levied, collected and paid with respect to the
salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and other income earned or
received, and with respect to the net profits of business, professions or other
activities earned on or after January 1, 2014.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.047 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   All funds collected under this subchapter shall be deposited in the
Income Tax Fund for the village to be transferred out of the Income Tax Fund
for emergency services, for debt reduction (loans, notes and/or bonds), and for
parks and recreation as deemed necessary by the Council, in accordance with the
following percentages:
      (1)   Emergency services: 25%;
      (2)   Debt reduction/capital improvements: 55%; and
      (3)   Parks and recreation: 5%.
   (B)   The remainder of said funds, 15% of the funds collected under this
subchapter, shall remain in the Income Tax Fund until Council determines how
the same shall be disbursed, transferred and/or expended through the village’s
General Fund.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015; Ord. 1540-17, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 37.048 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This subchapter, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding changes
to R.C. § 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after January
1, 2016. All provisions of this subchapter apply to taxable years beginning
2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   This subchapter does not repeal the existing sections of Ord. 1239-00,
Ord. 1320-04 and Ord. 1468-13 for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather
amends Ord. 1239-00, Ord. 1320-04 and Ord. 1468-13 effective January 1, 2016.
For village taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016, the village shall
continue to administer, audit and enforce the income tax of the village under
R.C. § 718 and ordinances and resolutions of the village as that ordinance and
those ordinances and resolutions existed before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
PART II: DEFINITIONS
§ 37.060 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Any term
used in this subchapter that is not otherwise defined in this subchapter has
the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of the United
States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title 47, unless a
different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this subchapter that
is not otherwise defined in this subchapter is used in a comparable context in
both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in R.C.
Title 47 and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the laws of
the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the use of
the term in R.C. Title 47. For purposes of this section, the singular shall
include the plural, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the
gender-neutral.
   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME.
      (1)   For a person required to file as a C corporation, or for a person
that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation under division (4) of the
definition for NET PROFIT, means a C corporation’s federal taxable income
before net operating losses and special deductions as determined under the
Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (1)(a) above of this definition, but excluding that portion of
intangible income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition
of property described in § 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or
other disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (d)2. below of this
definition, deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the
extent the income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange or other
disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue
Code; and
            2.   Division (d)1. above of this definition does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in §§ 1245 or 1250 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and allowed
as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   1.   Except as limited by divisions (h)2., (h)3. and (h)4. below
of this definition, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a
taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017. The amount of such net
operating loss shall be deducted from net profit that is reduced by exempt
income to the extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with
any remaining unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to not
more than five consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in which
the loss was incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for the
deduction to be fully utilized;
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (1)(h)1.
above of this definition to offset qualifying wages;
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (h)1.
above of this definition.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
(h)1. above of this definition.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss canyforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (h) of this definition; and
            5.   Nothing in division (h)3.a. above of this definition precludes
a person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (h)3.a. above of this definition.
To the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized
in one or more taxable years by operation of division (h)3.a. above of this
definition is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a
taxable year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022, the limitation described in
division (h)3.a. above of this definition shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.107(E)(3)(b); and
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.107(E)(3)(b).
      (2)   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made the election described in division (2) of the definition for
TAXPAYER, is not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election
described in division (4) of the definition for NET PROFIT, and is not an
individual, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under
this division (2) as if the taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed
payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be
allowed as a deductible expense unless such payments are in consideration for
the use of capital and treated as payment of interest under § 469 of the
Internal Revenue Code or United States treasury regulations. Amounts paid or
accrued to a qualified self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member of the
taxpayer, amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member, and
amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
      (3)   Nothing in division (1)(a) above of this definition shall be
construed as allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once
or shall be construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or
accrued for purposes of federal self-employment tax.
   ASSESSMENT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty or interest, to the municipal corporation;
         (b)   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
37.145(B)(2);
         (c)   A Tax Administrator’s denial of a taxpayer’s request for use of
an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.106(B)(2) of this subchapter; or
         (d)   A Tax Administrator’s requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.106(B)(3) of this subchapter.
         (e)   For purposes of divisions (1)(a), (1)(b), (1)(c) and (1)(d)
above of this definition, an assessment shall commence the person’s time
limitation for making an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
37.209, and shall have “ASSESSMENT” written in all capital letters at the top
of such finding.
      (2)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for refund
issued under §
37.145(B)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the village, a Tax Administrator’s request for additional
information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors or a Tax
Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer that does
not meet the criteria prescribed by division (1) above of this definition.
   AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books, records,
memoranda or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
   BOARD OF REVIEW. Has same meaning as Local Board of Tax Review.
   CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of March,
June, September or December.
   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
3772.01.
   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE AND SIMILAR
TERMS. Include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. § 5703.056.
   COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for personal
services.
   DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a qualifying
subchapter S subsidiary or another entity if the company, subsidiary or entity
is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
   DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
   EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
      (1)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) below of this
definition, intangible income; and
         (b)   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible income
on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th General
Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the electors
of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to permit the
taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor thereof at
an election held on November 8, 1988.
      (3)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in this division (3) of this
definition, “unemployment compensation” does not include supplemental
unemployment compensation described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue
Code;
      (4)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities;
      (5)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
      (6)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
      (7)   Alimony and child support received;
      (8)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
      (9)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. This division (9) of this
definition does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
      (10)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
      (11)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (12)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
this section;
      (13)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
      (14)   An S corporation shareholder’s distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 1402(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code;
      (15)   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals less
than 18 years of age;
      (16)   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (16)(b), (16)(c) and (16)(d)
below of this definition, qualifying wages described in §
37.091(B)(1) or (E) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the village under either of those divisions;
         (b)   The exemption provided in division (16)(a) above of this
definition does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which
the employee resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages; and
         (c)   The exemption provided in division (16)(a) above of this
definition does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to
withhold under §
37.091(D)(2);
         (d)   The exemption provided in division (16)(a) above of this
definition does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following
conditions apply:
            1.   For qualifying wages described in §
37.091(B)(1), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
37.091(E), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed location is
located; and
            2.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (16)(d)1. above of this definition on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
      (17)   (a)   Except as provided in division (17)(b) or (17)(c) below of
this definition, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a
nonresident individual for personal services performed in the village on not
more than 20 days in a taxable year.
         (b)   The exemption provided in division (17)(a) above of this
definition does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the village;
and
            2.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure. For purposes of this division (17)
(b)2. of this definition, “professional athlete”, “professional entertainer”
and “public figure” have the same meanings as in §
37.091.
         (c)   Compensation to which this division (17) of this definition
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
         (d)   For purposes of this division (17) of this definition, “base of
operation” means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and at
which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
      (18)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for
a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence;
      (19)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the Constitution or
laws of the United States; and
      (20)   Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under this definition is exempt income of each owner of the pass-through entity
to the extent of that owner’s distributive or proportionate share of that item
of the entity’s income.
   FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by a
particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
   INCOME. Means the following:
      (1)   (a)   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (4) of the definition
for NET PROFIT;
         (b)   For the purposes of division (1)(a) above of this definition:
            1.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the taxable
year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss generated
in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership interest
in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that taxable year
and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit of the
resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit attributable to
the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity until fully
utilized, subject to division (1)(d) below of this definition;
            2.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year;
            3.   Division (1)(b) above of this definition does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders’ distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as
provided in division (14) of the definition of EXEMPT INCOME; and
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
      (2)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the village, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident;
      (3)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the taxpayer;
and
      (4)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings from
games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
37.125.
   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends; or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money or credits as those terms are defined
in R.C. § 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names, investments
in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated investment
companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE INCOME does
not include prizes, awards or other income associated with any lottery
winnings, gambling winnings or other similar games of chance.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, found at Title 26
of the United States Code, and cited as “26 U.S.C. __”. For example, where
reference is made to "Section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code," the complete
citation would then be, 26 U.S.C. § 1221.
   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under R.C.
Chapter 1705, Chapter 1706, or under the laws of another state.
   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity created under
§
37.209.
   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. In general terms, a status conferred upon a local
government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous operating
authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain, police power
and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development district or
joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under R.C. §§
718.691, 715.70, 715.71 or 715.74.
   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
      (1)   Means the following:
         (a)   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by exempt
income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as applicable,
apportioned or sitused to the village under §
37.106, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the village.
         (b)   1.   For an individual who is a resident of a village other than
a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income to the
extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in division (2)
below of this definition, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating
loss carryforward available to the individual for the village.
            2.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified municipal
corporation, state adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted, and
increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation from
the qualified municipal corporation’s tax on or before December 31, 2013. If a
qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31,2013, exempts income
earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
         (c)   For an individual who is a nonresident of the village, income
reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then,
as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the village under §
37.106, then reduced as provided in division (2) below of this definition, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the village.
      (2)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in divisions (1)(b)1. or (1)
(c) above of this definition, the amount of the individual’s employee business
expenses reported on the individual’s form 2106 that the individual deducted
for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by § 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal corporation in
which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses
allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a municipal corporation in which
the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to
the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer’s performance of personal
services in that nonresident municipal corporation.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Paulding, Ohio.
   NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a trade
or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses resulting
from basis limitations, at-risk limitations or passive activity loss
limitations.
   NET PROFIT.
      (1)   For a person other than an individual, means adjusted federal
taxable income.
      (2)   For a person who is an individual means the individual’s net profit
required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E or schedule F reduced by any
net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes of division (1) above of
this definition, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated and
deducted in the same manner as provided in division (1)(h) of this definition
for ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME.
      (3)   For the purposes of this subchapter, and notwithstanding division
(1) above of this definition, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
      (4)   (a)   For purposes of this subchapter, PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A publicly traded partnership may have any
number of partners.
         (b)   For the purposes of this subchapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this subchapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in this division (4) of this
definition shall be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall
not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
         (c)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (4)(d) below of this definition.
         (d)   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (4)(c) above of this definition. The election to
discontinue filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election and continues to be
binding for each subsequent five- year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal
purposes. An election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in
the first year following the last year of a five-year election period.
         (e)   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but this division (4) of this
definition applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner
of the partnership resides.
         (f)   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
   NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident of the village.
   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created under
R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply forms
with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and payment
system.
   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association taxable as
a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability company
not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax
purposes, an S corporation or any other class of entity from which the income
or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for federal income
tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust, estate, grantor of
a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
   PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is reported
to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION does not
include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified deferred
compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement, or successor form.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies,
business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability partnerships,
limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S corporations,
governmental entities and any other entity.
   POSTAL SERVICE. The United States postal service, or private delivery
service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon delivery
schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK AND SIMILAR TERMS. Include the date recorded
and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a database kept
in the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in which the
payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or document was
given to the delivery service for delivery
   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD.
      (1)   Any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before
January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or
ordinance of the village that was adopted by the village before January 1,
2016, to be carried forward and utilized to offset income or net profit
generated in such village in future taxable years.
      (2)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any PRE-
2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
   QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A municipal corporation that, by resolution
or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted state adjusted
gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to tax for
the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct the following amounts:
         (a)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
         (b)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer; and
         (c)   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
      (2)   Add the following amounts:
         (a)   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee was
employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
         (b)   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in §§ 401(k), 403(b) or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. This
division (2)(b) of this definition applies only to employee contributions and
employee deferrals;
         (c)   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages;
         (d)   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with § 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
         (e)   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following apply:
            1.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation that
is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under § 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute wages
as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
            3.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
            4.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been added
to wages pursuant to either this division (2) of this definition or R.C. §
718.03 of the Ohio Revised Code, as that section existed before the effective
date of H.B. 5 of the 130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
   RELATED ENTITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s family
enumerated in § 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and the
members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
      (2)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
      (3)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (4) below of this definition,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding
stock; and
      (4)   The attribution rules described in § 318 of the Internal Revenue
Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in
(1) to (3) above of this definition have been met.
   RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during all or
any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component member
as defined in § 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person to or from
whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with § 1563(e) of
the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining whether a person
is a related member under this definition, “20%” shall be substituted for “5%”
wherever “5%” appears in § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the village as determined under
§
37.076.
   S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under subchapter S of
Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its taxable year.
   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service schedule C (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service schedule F (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company that
has one direct member.
   SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than $500,000
during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this definition, TOTAL
REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited to:
sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under generally
accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal
government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct responsibility for
administration of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation in accordance
with this subchapter, and also includes the following:
      (1)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
      (2)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis; and
      (3)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
   TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in § 7701(a)(36) of the
Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. part 301.7701-15.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for the
taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
   TAXPAYER.
      (1)   A person subject to a tax levied on income by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this subchapter. TAXPAYER does not include a
grantor trust or, except as provided in division (2)(a) below of this
definition, a disregarded entity.
      (2)   (a)   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all state municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
            2.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more state municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
            3.   Not later than December 31,2004, the limited liability company
and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under R.C. § 718.01(L) as this section existed on December 31, 2004;
            4.   The limited liability company was not formed for the purpose
of evading or reducing state municipal corporation income tax liability of the
limited liability company or its single member; and
            5.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place of
business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to the
election.
         (b)   For purposes of division (2)(a)5. above of this definition, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in this state, and that tax liability to that
municipal corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least
$400,000.
   TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to taxpayers in
R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38, 5717.011 and
5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the village, and the
responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the state
pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
PART III: INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS
§ 37.075 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the village is calculated
as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in division (2) of the definition of MUNICIPAL TAXABLE
INCOME in §
37.060, further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward equals
municipal taxable income.
         (a)   Income as defined in §
37.060.
            1.   Qualifying wages as defined in §
37.060;
            2.   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
37.060. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (1)
(h) of the definition for ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
37.060. Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental
real estate is provided in §
37.106(E).
            3.   The definition for INCOME in §
37.060 provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss carryforward
treatment in division (1)(b)2. of the definition of INCOME in §
37.060; resident’s distributive share of net profit from pass through entity
treatment in division (1)(b)2. of the definition of INCOME in §
37.060; treatment of S corporation distributive share of net profit in the
hands of the shareholder in division (1)(b)3. of the definition of INCOME in §
37.060; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried forward for use
by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in division (1)(b)4. of the definition
of INCOME in §
37.060;
            4.   Pass through entity as defined in §
37.060.
      (2)   Exempt income as defined in §
37.060;
      (3)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in
division (2) of the definition for MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
37.060, and is subject to the limitations provided in that section; and
      (4)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward as defined in §
37.060.
   (B)   Municipal taxable income for a nonresident of the village is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the
village as provided in §
37.106, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in
division (2) of the definition of MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
37.060, further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward equals
municipal taxable income.
      (2)   Income is defined in §
37.060.
         (a)   Qualifying wages is defined in §
37.060.
         (b)   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
37.060. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (1)
(h) of the definition of ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
37.060. Net profit for a nonresident individual includes any net profit of the
nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or loss of only
pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
         (c)   Pass through entity is defined in §
37.060.
      (3)   Exempt income is defined in §
37.060.
      (4)   Apportioned or sitused to the village as provided in §
37.106 includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the village. Treatment of net profits received by
an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
37.106(E).
      (5)   Allowable employee business expense deduction as described in
division (2) of the definition for MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME in §
37.060, is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the village, the deduction is limited to the extent the expenses
are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident in the
village.
      (6)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
37.060.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.076 DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return;
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the village for all or
part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the village on the
last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if the Tax Administrator
reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in the village for all or
part of the taxable year; and
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) above if the individual establishes by a preponderance of the
evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the village for all or part
of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the village for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be considered
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual’s residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, to
the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located; and
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the village.
For the purposes of this division (B)(9), an individual has one “contact
period” with the village if the individual is away overnight from the
individual’s abode located outside of the village and while away overnight from
that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the village. For purposes of this section, the state’s
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.077 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
PART IV: COLLECTION AT SOURCE
§ 37.090 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGE.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the village shall withhold from each employee an amount equal
to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the village
multiplied by the applicable rate of the village’s income tax, except for
qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
37.091 or divisions (D) or (F) below. An employer, agent of an employer or
other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying wages on the date
that the employer, agent or other payer directly, indirectly or constructively
pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages to the benefit
of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) above, an employer, agent of an employer or other payer may also deduct and
withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal corporation in
which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the village the greater of the income taxes deducted
and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the
employer, agent or other payer, along with any report required by the Tax
Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer not required
to make payments under divisions (B)(1)(b) or (B)(1)(c) below of taxes required
to be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax
Administrator not later than last day of the month following the last day of
each calendar quarter; and
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the village in any month of the preceding
calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payments under this division (B)(1)(b) shall be
made to the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days after the last day of each
month (i.e., payments are considered timely if postmarked by the due date).
      (2)   (Option for municipal corporation) Taxes required to be deducted
and withheld shall be remitted semi-monthly to the Tax Administrator if the
total taxes deducted and withheld or required to be deducted on behalf of the
village in the preceding calendar year exceeded $11,999, or if the total amount
of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be deducted and withheld on
behalf of the village in any month of the preceding calendar year exceeded
$1,000. The payment under division (B)(1)(a) above shall be made to the Tax
Administrator not later than one of the following:
         (a)   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld during the first 15 days of a month, the third banking
day after the fifteenth day of that month; or
         (b)   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld after the fifteenth day of a month and before the first
day of the immediately following month, the third banking day after the last
day of that month.
      (3)   (Option for municipal corporation) An employer, agent of an
employer or other payer is required to make payment by electronic funds
transfer to the Tax Administrator of all taxes deducted and withheld on behalf
of the employee for remittance to the village if the employer, agent of an
employer, or other payer is required to make payments electronically for the
purpose of paying federal taxes withheld on payments to employees under § 6302
of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 C.F.R. part 31.6302-1, or any other federal
statute or regulation. The payment of tax by electronic funds transfer under
this division (B)(3) does not affect an employer’s, agent’s or other payer’s
obligation to file any return as required under this section. Once the
threshold for remitting payment electronically for federal purposes has been
met, any accrued municipal income tax withheld from employee qualifying wages
earned within the village shall be remitted to the village at the same time
that the federal tax withholding payment is due.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall make and file a
return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent or other payer
from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent or other payer under this
division (C) shall be accepted by the village as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this subchapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee’s employer, agent of an employer or
other payer, unless the village requires all resident individual taxpayers to
file a tax return under §
37.140.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this subchapter or by the employer’s, agent’s or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer to
remit to the village the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability for
that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent or other payer
in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the village until such time as the withheld
amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses and Social Security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the village
during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if any, from
each such employee’s qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying wages paid
to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of every other
municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have been withheld
from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other information
required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal Revenue Service
form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee, and other
information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer’s control. For the purposes of this division (J), a tip or gratuity is
under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this subchapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for
the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015; Ord. 1527-16, passed 9-6-2016) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.091 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYER. Includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      FIXED LOCATION. A permanent place of doing business in this state, such
as an office, warehouse, storefront or similar location owned or controlled by
an employer.
      PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK.
         (a)   The fixed location to which an employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the worksite location in this
state to which the employee is required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not required to report for
employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location or
worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location in this state at
which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a calendar year
performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
         (b)   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the GREATEST NUMBER OF DAYS IN A CALENDAR YEAR performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (B)(1)(a) below among those two or more
municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and
reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division (b)
shall be the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those
qualifying wages for the purposes of this section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this definition, the location at which an
employee spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division
(B)(2) below, except that LOCATION shall be substituted for “municipal
corporation” wherever “municipal corporation” appears in that division.
      PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE. An athlete who performs services in a professional
athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER. A person who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      PUBLIC FIGURE. A person of prominence who performs services at discrete
events, such as speeches, public appearances or similar events, for wages or
other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      WORKSITE LOCATION. A construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20 days during
the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of an employee.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F) and (G) below, an employer is
not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages paid to an
employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal corporation
that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in the
municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of the
following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
village;
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the village. For the purposes of this division (B)(1)(b),
“presumed worksite location” means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services that can
reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar
year. Services can “reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20
days” if either of the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services; and
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the village and has requested that
the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages as provided in §
37.090; or
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional entertainer
or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the performance of
services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure within the village.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) above, an employee shall be
considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal corporation
only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on behalf of
the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other municipal
corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount of time an
employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing one or more
of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent at the
employee’s principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured or improved by the employee’s employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) above, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee does not
temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned, used or
controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; or
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
subchapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division
(B)(1) above shall apply only if, with respect to the employee’s qualifying
wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, if, during a
calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing personal
services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20 day threshold described in
division (B)(1) above, the employer shall withhold and remit tax to that
municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that calendar year on which
the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for personal services
performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) above may elect to withhold tax for that
municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2)
above, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those first 20
days to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal place of
work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee’s qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer’s fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
37.060. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) above shall not apply to the extent that a
Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the manner
in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
37.090.
   (G)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a petroleum
refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the qualifying
wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12 or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the employer is
located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax
applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on those
days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax
on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this division
(G), a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard industrial
classification code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining.
Notwithstanding division (D) above, if, during a calendar year, the number of
days an individual performs personal services at a petroleum refinery exceeds
12, the employer shall withhold tax for the municipal corporation for the first
12 days for which the employer paid qualifying wages to the individual and for
all subsequent days in the calendar year on which the individual performed
services at the refinery.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.092 COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   The village shall require a casino facility or a casino operator, as
defined in Section 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §
3772.01, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this
section.
   (B)   If a person’s winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by § 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct and
withhold municipal income tax from the person’s winnings at the rate of the tax
imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the village,
providing the name, address and Social Security number of the person from whose
winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such deduction
and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of the winnings
from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino gaming that
resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by the Tax
Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit electronically
to the village all amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall file an
annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipal
corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the total
amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The casino
operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount that was
deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the name,
address or Social Security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall issue an
information return to each person with respect to whom an amount has been
deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The information
return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted from the
person’s winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall provide
to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under this
division (C). The Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person’s prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by § 6041 of
the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person’s prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person’s name, address and Social Security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
village providing the names, addresses and Social Security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under this division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before January 31, each video lottery terminal
sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address or Social Security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period that information shall be indicated on
the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before January 31, a video lottery sales agent
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
and withheld from the person’s prize award by the video lottery sales agent
during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall provide to the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each information return
issued under this division (E). The Tax Administrator may require that such
copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
      (2)   (a)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
         (b)   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor
is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld; and
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
37.110. This division (I) applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
PART V: INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFITS TAX
§ 37.105 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for
the village is calculated as follows.
   (B)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
      (1)   Income for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net
profit of the taxpayer.
         (a)   Net profit for a person other than an individual is defined in §
37.060.
         (b)   Adjusted federal taxable income is defined in §
37.106.
      (2)   Exempt income is defined in §
37.060.
      (3)   Apportionment means the apportionment as determined by §
37.106.
      (4)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in § 
37.060.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.106 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFITS TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   (A)   This division applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or
profession in the village unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in
the village or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(2) and (B) of this
section, net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the village shall be considered as having a taxable
situs in the village for purposes of municipal income taxation in the same
proportion as the average ratio of the following:
         (a)   1.   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the village during the taxable period to the average original cost of all of
the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the
business or profession during the same period, wherever situated;
            2.   As used in the preceding division, tangible personal or real
property shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value
of such property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon
by eight;
         (b)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the village to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during
the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession, wherever
the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from which
taxes are not required to be withheld under § 37.091;
         (c)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales
and rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
village to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the same
period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
      (2)   (a)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A)(1)
above do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the village, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the village
may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any portion of the
income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method involving one or
more of the following:
            1.   Separate accounting;
            2.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
            3.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipal corporation;
            4.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
         (b)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
37.210(A).
         (c)   The Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method as described in division (A)(2)(a) above, but
only by issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
37.210(A).
         (d)   Nothing in this division (A)(2) nullifies or otherwise affects
any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by the Tax Administrator or
otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and taxpayer before January
1, 2016.
      (3)   As used in division (A)(1)(b) above, "wages, salaries, and other
compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
         (a)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
            1.   The employer;
            2.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
            3.   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described
in (A)(3)(a)2. above, or a related member of such a vendor, customer, client,
or patient.
         (b)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer;
         (c)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (A)(3)(a) or (b) above solely in order
to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax liability. If the Tax
Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
      (4)   For the purposes of division (A)(1)(c) above, and except as
provided in division (B) above, receipts from sales and rentals made and
services performed shall be sitused to a municipal corporation as follows:
         (a)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division, a sale of property originates in the village if,
regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the following
criteria:
            1.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the village
from a stock of goods located within the village;
            2.   The property is delivered within the village from a location
outside the village provided the taxpayer is regularly engaged through its own
employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales within the village and the
sales result from such solicitation or promotion;
            3.   The property is shipped from a place within the village to
purchasers outside the village provided that the taxpayer is not, through its
own employees, regularly engaged in the solicitation or promotion of sales at
the place where delivery is made.
         (b)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
village to the extent that such services are performed in the village.
         (c)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale
of real property located in the village shall be sitused to the village.
         (d)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the village shall be sitused to the
village.
         (e)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the village based upon the extent to which the
tangible personal property is used in the village.
      (5)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental
of real estate owned directly by the individual, or by a disregarded entity
owned by the individual, shall be subject to the village's tax only if the
property generating the net profit is located in the village or if the
individual taxpayer that receives the net profit is a resident of the village.
the village shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use separate accounting for
the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under this division to the
municipal corporation in which the property is located.
      (6)   (a)   Commissions received by a real estate agent or broker
relating to the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported
by the real estate agent or broker shall be allocated to the village if
applicable, based upon the ratio of the commissions the agent or broker
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate located in the
village to the commissions received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real
estate everywhere in the taxable year.
         (b)   An individual who is a resident of the village shall report the
individual's net profit from all real estate activity on the individual's
annual tax return for the village. The individual may claim a credit for taxes
the individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such a credit, if any, is allowed under § 37.125.
      (7)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under this chapter, the taxpayer shall add the amount that is exempt
from taxation to the taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to that
municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to its
net profit that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount other
than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were the
amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation. This division
applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to the amount of a
taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to a municipal corporation under
this section.
      (8)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A)(1) above for
the purposes of that division or division (A)(2) above, the owner of a
disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of this division, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         QUALIFYING REMOTE EMPLOYEE OR OWNER. An individual who is an employee
of a taxpayer or who is a partner or member holding an ownership interest in a
taxpayer that is treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes,
provided that the individual meets both of the following criteria:
            1.   The taxpayer has assigned the individual to a qualifying
reporting location; and
            2.   The individual is permitted or required to perform services
for the taxpayer at a qualifying remote work location.
         QUALIFYING REMOTE WORK LOCATION. A permanent or temporary location at
which an employee or owner chooses or is required to perform services for the
taxpayer, other than a reporting location of the taxpayer or any other location
owned or controlled by a customer or client of the taxpayer. QUALIFYING REMOTE
WORK LOCATION may include the residence of an employee or owner and may be
located outside of a municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in
accordance with this chapter. An employee or owner may have more than one
qualifying remote work location during a taxable year.
         QUALIFYING REPORTING LOCATION. One of the following:
            1.   The reporting location in this state at which an employee or
owner performs services for the taxpayer on a regular or periodic basis during
the taxable year;
            2.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under division 1. above, the reporting location in this state at which
the employee's or owner's supervisor regularly or periodically reports during
the taxable year;
            3.   If no reporting location exists in this state for an employee
or owner under divisions 1. or 2. above, the location that the taxpayer
otherwise assigns as the employee's or owner's qualifying reporting location,
provided the assignment is made in good faith and is recorded and maintained in
the taxpayer's business records. A taxpayer may change the qualifying reporting
location designated for an employee or owner under this division at any time.
         REPORTING LOCATION. Either of the following:
            1.   A permanent or temporary place of doing business, such as an
office, warehouse, storefront, construction site, or similar location, that is
owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the taxpayer; or
            2.   Any location in this state owned or controlled by a customer
or client of the taxpayer, provided that the taxpayer is required to withhold
taxes under § 37.090, on qualifying wages paid to an employee for the
performance of personal services at that location.
      (2)   (a)   For tax years ending on or after December 31, 2023, a
taxpayer may elect to apply the provisions of this division to the
apportionment of its net profit from a business or profession. For taxpayers
that make this election, the provisions of division (A) above apply to such
apportionment except as otherwise provided in this division.
         (b)   A taxpayer shall make the election allowed under this division
in writing on or with the taxpayer's net profit return or, if applicable, a
timely filed amended net profit return or a timely filed appeal of an
assessment. The election applies to the taxable year for which that return or
appeal is filed and for all subsequent taxable years, until the taxpayer
revokes the election.
         (c)   The taxpayer shall make the initial election with the Tax
Administrator of each municipal corporation with which, after applying the
apportionment provisions authorized in this division, the taxpayer is required
to file a net profit tax return for that taxable year. A taxpayer shall not be
required to notify the Tax Administrator of a municipal corporation in which a
qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote work location is
located, unless the taxpayer is otherwise required to file a net profit return
with that municipal corporation due to business operations that are unrelated
to the employee's or owner's activity at the qualifying remote work location.
         (d)   After the taxpayer makes the initial election, the election
applies to every municipal corporation in which the taxpayer conducts business.
The taxpayer shall not be required to file a net profit return with a municipal
corporation solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying
remote work location is located in such municipal corporation.
         (e)   Nothing in this division prohibits a taxpayer from making a new
election under this division after properly revoking a prior election.
      (3)   For the purpose of calculating the ratios described in division (A)
(1) above, all of the following apply to a taxpayer that has made the election
described in division (B)(2):
         (a)   For the purpose of division (A)(1)(a) above, the average
original cost of any tangible personal property used by a qualifying remote
employee or owner at that individual's qualifying remote work location shall be
sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting location.
         (b)   For the purpose of division (A)(1)(b) above, any wages,
salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable period to a qualifying
remote employee or owner for services performed at that individual's qualifying
remote work location shall be sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting
location.
         (c)   For the purpose of division (A)(1)(c) above, and notwithstanding
division (A)(4) above, any gross receipts of the business or profession from
services performed during the taxable period by a qualifying remote employee or
owner for services performed at that individual's qualifying remote work
location shall be sitused to that individual's qualifying reporting location.
      (4)   Nothing in this division prevents a taxpayer from requesting, or a
Tax Administrator from requiring, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or
a portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method as
described in division (A)(2) above. However, a Tax Administrator shall not
require an alternative apportionment method in such a manner that it would
require a taxpayer to file a net profit return with a municipal corporation
solely because a qualifying remote employee's or owner's qualifying remote work
location is located in that municipal corporation.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, nothing in this
division is intended to affect the withholding of taxes on qualifying wages
pursuant to § 37.090.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015; Ord. 1642-23, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 37.107 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS. An affiliated group as defined in §
1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group includes at
least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily engaged in the
business of providing local exchange telephone service in this state, the
affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange carrier that
would otherwise be included in the group.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN. A consolidated return filed for
federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. The consolidated taxable income of
an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of filing a
consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net operating
losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME does not
include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is excluded
from the affiliated group under definition of AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS
above.
      INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year:
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law;
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) below; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) above. The election to discontinue filing a
consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above is binding
on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a municipal
income tax.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3) and (E)
(4) below, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
37.060, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal
taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that division and
by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C corporation’s”
wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under division (E)(1) above to the
extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise subject to the adjustment
has been eliminated or consolidated in the computation of consolidated federal
taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
37.106, exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group; and
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
37.106, include the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
37.106, exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation; and
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this subchapter on the basis
of the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
37.106 by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income attributable to”
for “net profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by
substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever
“taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
subchapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is
a member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of
such an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.108 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN THE STATE.
   The village, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable credit
against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the village.
If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured as a percentage
of the new income tax revenue the village derives from new employees of the
taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years. Before the village
passes an ordinance granting a credit, the village and the taxpayer shall enter
into an agreement specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.109 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The village, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable credit
against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the village. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall
be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the village derives from
the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term not exceeding
15 years. Before the village passes an ordinance allowing such a credit, the
village and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the
conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.110 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESTIMATED TAXES. The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to be
the taxpayer’s tax liability for a municipal corporation’s income tax for the
current taxable year.
      TAX LIABILITY. The total taxes due to a municipal corporation for the
taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and
after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment or credit from
another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld;
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division (B)
(1)(b), “date of the postmark” means, in the event there is more than one date
on the cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service;
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator; and
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
37.140(G) or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the first
taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the village or Tax
Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes and
withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in divisions (C)(1)
(a) through (C)(1)(d) above.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §
37.140.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to R.C. § 5747.08(G).
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer’s
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
37.160 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) below.
The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) above shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by
this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
37.140 for that year; and
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the village but was
not domiciled there on January 1 of the calendar year that includes the first
day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
PART VI: CREDIT FOR TAX PAID
§ 37.125 RESIDENTS SUBJECT TO INCOME TAX IN OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   There will be no credit given for municipal income tax paid to other
municipalities for residents of the village.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.126 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN. A compensation plan described in
§ 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      QUALIFYING LOSS.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below of this definition,
means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation the payment of
which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan over
the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized for federal income tax
purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as compensation with
respect to the taxpayer’s receipt of money and property attributable to
distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the “qualifying loss” is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (a) above of this
definition computed without regard to this division (b) of this definition and
a fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      QUALIFYING TAX RATE. The applicable tax rate for the taxable year for the
which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with respect to
any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1) Except as provided in division (D) below, a refundable credit
shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal corporation for
each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable year. The
amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying loss and
the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.127 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A village shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident of
the village who works in a joint economic development zone created under R.C. §
715.691 or a joint economic development district created under R.C. §§ 715.70,
715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit against its tax on
income to its residents who are employed in another municipal corporation,
pursuant to §
37.125.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.128 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the village, but should
have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is allowable by
the village as a refund, but is subject to the three-year limitation on refunds
as provided in §
37.145.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the village, but
was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall be subject to
collection and recovery by the village. To the extent a refund of such tax or
withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as provided in §
37.145, the village will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the other village against the income tax the village claims
is due. If the village’s tax rate is higher, the tax representing the net
difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection by the village, along
with any penalty and interest accruing during the period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
37.145.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a village to allow credit for tax
paid to another municipal corporation if the village has reduced credit for tax
paid to another municipal corporation. Section
37.125 regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
PART VII: ANNUAL RETURN
§ 37.140 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the village shall be completed and filed by every
taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the tax,
regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the village under §
37.090(C) when the nonresident individual taxpayer’s sole income subject to the
tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, and no additional tax is due to the village.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older, shall
file an annual municipal income tax return with the village, regardless of
income or liability.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the village in accordance with this subchapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person charged
with the care of the person or property of that individual shall provide, with
the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support that they are
authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer. This notice
shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact information
including name, address and phone number of the duly authorized agent,
guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s Social Security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, Wage and Tax Statements, including all information
reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service
form 1040 and, with respect to an amended tax return or refund request, any
other documentation necessary to support the refund request or the adjustments
made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files the annual return
required by this section electronically is not required to provide paper copies
of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless the Tax Administrator
requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division (F) to the
Tax Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is
available, submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business
Gateway or a portal provided by village. The Department of Taxation shall
publish a method of electronically submitting the documents required under this
division (F) through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016.
The Department shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this
division to the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements or
documents required by the village to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under this division
(F) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form or on a
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the Village or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer’s taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the village or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the village in accordance with this
subchapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and
make payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers
not otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
37.141 applies, to the extent that any provision in this division (G) conflicts
with any provision in §
37.141, the provision in §
37.141 prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the village shall not
require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount due
is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the village for a taxable
year pursuant to division (H)(1) above shall file with the village an annual
net profit return under divisions (F)(3) and (F)(4) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   If any report, claim, statement or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this subchapter is delivered after that period
or that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement or other document is required to be filed, or to which
the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the report, claim, statement or other document, or payment is
mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment. THE
DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the cover,
the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment under this subchapter is made by electronic funds
transfer, the payment is considered to be made on the date of the timestamp
assigned by the first electronic system receiving that payment. For purposes of
this section, “receiving that payment” refers to the transfer of the funds from
the account of the taxpayer. Such funds are no longer under the control of the
taxpayer once the timestamp has occurred.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the village by an employer, the agent of an
employer or other payer as described in §
37.090 shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as credits against
payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts withheld were
not remitted to the village and the recipient colluded with the employer, agent
or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the village to be filed in accordance with
this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the village shall accept for filing a generic
form of any income tax return, report or document required by the village in
accordance with this subchapter, provided that the generic form, once completed
and filed, contains all of the information required by ordinances, resolutions
or rules adopted by the village or Tax Administrator, and provided that the
taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the generic form otherwise complies with
the provisions of this subchapter and of the village’s ordinance or resolution
governing the filing of returns, reports or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division (N), “worksite location” has the same
meaning as in §
37.091.
      (2)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this subchapter.
The Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer
who has not complied with the provisions of this subchapter; and
         (b)   1.   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation’s
income tax for the taxable year.
            2.   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: “The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation’s resolutions, ordinances, or rules.” The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in this division (N)
(2), the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any tax return
for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses information that
conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described in the affidavit
change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results in work being
performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that results in
municipal taxable income reportable to the village in the taxable year. It
shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal taxable
income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit has been
filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in this division
(N) prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an audit of the person.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015; Ord. 1527-16, passed 9-6-2016)
§ 37.141 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the village
for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an extension of time
for payment of taxes required by the village in accordance with this subchapter
during the period of the member’s or civilian’s duty service and for 180 days
thereafter. The application shall be filed on or before the one hundred
eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty terminates. An applicant
shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator considers necessary to
demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(3) below, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the
Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the village before the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) above are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require any
payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division (C) denies to any person described in
this division (C) the application of divisions (A) and (B) above.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report or other tax document and an extension of time in which
to make any payment of taxes required by the village in accordance with this
subchapter. The length of any extension granted under this division (C)(2)(a)
shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension that the taxpayer
receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this section, “qualifying
taxpayer” means a member of the national guard or a member of a reserve
component of the armed forces of the United States called to active duty
pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian serving as
support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in support of the
armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) above are not delinquent during the extension period. Such
taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension
period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator
shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those
taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any
period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) above in calculating the
penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which divisions (A), (B) or (C) above applies
to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) or (C) above, as
applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing status of the
spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.142 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The state shall not be a party to
the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a municipal
income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.143 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   (1)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return for a taxpayer
that is an individual shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth month after the
last day of the taxable year to which the return relates. For tax years ending
on or after January 1, 2023, the extended due date of the municipal income tax
return for a taxpayer that is not an individual shall be the fifteenth day of
the eleventh month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return
relates.
      (2)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. lf the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
      (3)   An extension of time to file under this division above is not an
extension of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an
extension of that date.
   (B)   If the Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for filing
state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
   (C)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure the
payment of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
   (D)   (1)   If a taxpayer receives an extension for the filing of a
municipal income tax return under division (A), (B), or (C) of this section,
the Tax Administrator shall not make any inquiry or send any notice to the
taxpayer with regard to the return on or before the date the taxpayer files the
return or on or before the extended due date to file the return, whichever
occurs first.
      (2)   If a Tax Administrator violates this division (D), the municipal
corporation shall reimburse the taxpayer for any reasonable costs incurred to
respond to such inquiry or notice, up to $150.
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to an extension received under
division (A) above if the Tax Administrator has actual knowledge that the
taxpayer failed to file for a federal extension as required to receive the
extension under division (A) above or failed to file for an extension with the
Tax Administrator under division (A) above.
   (E)   To the extent that any provision in this division conflicts with any
provision in § 37.141, the provision in that section prevails.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015; Ord. 1642-23, passed 12-18-2023)
§ 37.144 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the village in accordance with this
subchapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) below, the amended return shall not reopen those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless the applicable statute of
limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
37.210 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division (C) within the period prescribed by §
37.210(E) for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no refund need be
paid by the village to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (C)(2)
below, a request filed under this division (C)(1) shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
37.145. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) below, the request shall not
reopen those facts, figures, computations or attachments that are not affected,
either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal or
state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.145 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
village, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers, agents of
employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the village:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10; and
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer’s claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) below, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any taxpayer whose
request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment shall state the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and
instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
37.209.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) above shall be considered to have been filed in a
timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day; or
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
37.160(A)(4).
   (E)   As used in this section, “withholding tax” has the same meaning as in
§
37.160.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
PART VIII: PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES
§ 37.160 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICABLE LAW. This subchapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions and rules adopted by the village provided such
resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions and rules impose or
directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE. The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under § 1274 of the Internal
Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX and WITHHOLDING TAX. Any income tax,
estimated income tax and withholding tax imposed by a municipal corporation
pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN THIS DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION. The
federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus 5%.
The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the year
in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with the
definition of FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE above.
      RETURN. Includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule and
other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX. Estimated income tax due but not paid by the
date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID INCOME TAX. Income tax due but not paid by the date the income tax
is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX. Withholding tax due but not paid by the date the
withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      WITHHOLDING TAX. Includes amounts an employer, any agent of an employer,
or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an employee’s
qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer, agent or other
payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the village on or after January 1, 2016 for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this village.
   (C)   The village shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the
employer and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest amounts
and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer, any agent
of the employer or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or in part,
to make to the village timely and full payment or remittance of income tax,
estimated income tax or withholding tax or to file timely with the village any
return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as “interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section”, per annum, on all unpaid income
tax, unpaid estimated income tax and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   (a)   For tax years ending on or before December 31, 2022, with
respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the village may
impose a penalty of $25 for each failure to timely file each return, regardless
of the liability shown thereon for each month, or any fraction thereof, during
which the return remains unfiled regardless of the liability shown thereon. The
penalty shall not exceed $150 for each failure.
         (b)   For tax years ending on or after January 1, 2023, with respect
to returns other than estimated income tax returns, the village may impose a
penalty not exceeding $25 for each failure to timely file each return,
regardless of the liability shown thereon, except that the village shall abate
or refund the penalty assessed on a taxpayer's first failure to timely file a
return after the taxpayer files that return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the village shall not impose, seek to collect or collect any
penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not described in this
section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the village shall not refund or credit any penalty, amount
of interest, charges or additional fees that were properly imposed or collected
before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The village may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of the
employer or any other payer the village’s post-judgment collection costs and
fees, including attorney fees.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015; Ord. 1642-23, passed 12-18-2023)
PART IX: AUDIT AND ROUNDING
§ 37.175 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
37.060, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. This
division (C)(2) does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not
an attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.176 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher or other document required
under this subchapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest
whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the
person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
PART X: AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR
§ 37.190 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this subchapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division (A) shall be exercised by the Tax Administrator
only in connection with the performance of the duties respectively assigned to
the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation income tax ordinance or
resolution adopted in accordance with this subchapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator’s findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer’s assigns or legal representative as provided in this subchapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
37.106;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, redetermine or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
37.090.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.191 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the village that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the village:
      (1)   Compromise a claim; or
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment- over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer’s failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.192 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this subchapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this subchapter. Upon written request by
the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent or employee
to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal and state
income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this subchapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the village or for the withholding of
such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.193 AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person’s Social Security number, federal employer identification
number or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this subchapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
37.160, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
37.999.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) above within 30 days
after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying information,
nothing in this subchapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a
penalty pursuant to §
37.160.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above
may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with respect to
which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to any
applicable criminal penalties described in §
37.999 for a violation of §
37.206 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
PART XI: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 37.205 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the village is confidential, and no person shall access
or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial order
or in connection with the performance of that person’s official duties or the
official business of the village as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or the
charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the village
or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or otherwise received
under this subchapter and other related tax information to the Internal Revenue
Service, the State Tax Commissioner and Tax Administrators of other municipal
corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the village from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.206 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid or assist in the preparation or
presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel
or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim or document, or knowingly change, alter or amend, or knowingly
procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration or amendment of the records
upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim or document is based
with intent to defraud the village or the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.207 OPINION OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An “opinion of the Tax Administrator” means an opinion issued under
this section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It
does not include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an “opinion of the Tax Administrator” and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G) and (H) of below,
provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location or other pertinent facts;
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the village in accordance
with this subchapter; and
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an “opinion of the Tax Administrator”.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law or the village’s income
tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and conclusion of
the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law or the village’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances; and
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the Village in order to obtain a
more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
37.206.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) above; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) above may not be appealed.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.208 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division (B). A person disputing the presumption of
delivery and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent
was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the
purposes of this section, a person is associated with an address at the time
the Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the
person was residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the
address; or if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the
address and, when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s
affiliate was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this
section, a person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the
assessment was mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by
voting rights, of the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) above, and if that assessment is subject to collection and
is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60 days after the
initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal official, or the
designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division (B) prevents the
Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a compromise with the
person if the person does not actually file such an appeal with the Local Board
of Tax Review.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.209 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the village shall maintain a Local
Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Board shall consist of three members: the Village Solicitor;
one to be appointed by the Mayor; and one to be appointed by the Village
Council and who may not be employees, elected officials or contractors with the
village at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment.
      (3)   The term for members of the Board shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board member appointed by the
Mayor of the village shall serve at the discretion of the Mayor.
      (4)   The member of the Board appointed by the legislative authority may
be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. § 718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the Board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board in the member’s
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Board shall receive compensation, fee or
reimbursement of expenses for service on the Board.
      (9)   A member of the Board shall not be appointed to or serve on another
such Board simultaneously.
      (10)   The Board shall select, each year for a one-year term, one of its
members as serve as Chairperson and one to serve as Secretary. A majority of
the members shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall adopt its own procedural
rules and keep a record of its proceedings.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board by filing a request with the Board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C)
above, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant or other representative. The Board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board may affirm, reverse or modify the Tax Administrator’s
assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the Board’s final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board’s
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.210 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) above may be
extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent of
the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension. Any
extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time limit
described in division (C) below.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
37.209. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review
with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be reported,
prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission of the
offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
37.145.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the village does not prejudice any
claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
37.209, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant’s assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
37.145, with interest on that amount as provided by this division (D).
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; or
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.211 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the village, pursuant to this subchapter,
grants authority to the Tax Administrator to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the village.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.212 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   This subchapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this subchapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this subchapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
37.210.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this subchapter shall be due on the date provided in §
37.140 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for
which no other penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of §
10.99.
   (B)   Lodging.
      (1)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
37.031 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates §
37.026(C) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not
more than one $1,000 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both, for each
offense. Each disclosure shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   In addition to civil penalties established in R.C. § 191.15, any
person violating any of the provisions of §§
37.015 through
37.032 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for a period of not more than
six months or both. This penalty section is not intended to apply to
committees, employees or public officials while in their official capacity with
the village for failing to carry out procedural duties prescribed in this
subchapter.
   (C)   Municipal income taxation.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) below, whoever violates §§
37.206,
37.205(A) or
37.090 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from
office or discharge from employment, or both.
      (2)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code §§ 7213(a), 7213A or 7431
shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a fine
of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the violation is
punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
      (3)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
37.205(A) constitutes a separate offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212 for which violation no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fifth degree on a first offense; on a second offense within
one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree; on each subsequent offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. By way of
an illustrative enumeration, violations of §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212 shall include, but not be limited to, the following acts, conduct and/or
omissions:
         (a)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration
required by §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212;
         (b)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
         (c)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212;
         (d)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the village municipal corporation as required
by §
37.090;
         (e)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
         (f)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized
agent or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and
state income tax returns or any documentation relating to the income or net
profits of a taxpayer; or
         (g)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his
or her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
         (h)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person’s income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers’
income or net profits, such person’s employer’s income or net profits;
         (i)   Fail to comply with the provisions of §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212 or any order or subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
         (j)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct Social Security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
         (k)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
         (l)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212; or
         (m)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212.
      (5)   For purposes of this division (C), any violation that does not
specify a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and
no culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty
of that violation.
      (6)   For purposes of this division (C), the term “person” shall, in
addition to the meaning prescribed in §
37.060, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by §§
37.045 through
37.048,
37.060,
37.075 through
37.077,
37.090 through
37.092,
37.105 through
37.110,
37.125 through
37.128,
37.140 through
37.145,
37.160,
37.175,
37.176,
37.190 through
37.193 and
37.205 through
37.212.
(Ord. 1348-06, passed 6-19-2006; Ord. 1507-15, passed 11-2-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to levy, see R.C. §§ 5739.08, 5739.09
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Standards for establishing a monthly administrative fee for solid waste
collection
   
50.02   Regulation and maintenance of the village dumping grounds
Uniform Service for the Collection, Transportation and Disposal of Solid Waste
   
50.15   Private collection of solid waste prohibited; exception
   
50.16   Collection from single- and two-family dwellings
   
50.17   Containers or bags required; location
   
50.18   Rates; billing
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 STANDARDS FOR ESTABLISHING A MONTHLY ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR SOLID WASTE
COLLECTION.
   (A)   A USER of the village’s solid waste collection service shall be and
hereby is defined as the owner and/or occupier of each residential unit and
business unit being provided solid waste collection service by the village.
Limitation: only one administrative fee shall be collected per residential unit
or business unit per month, regardless of new ownership or occupation within
that month. For purposes of determining against whom the administrative fees
shall be assessed in the case of new ownership or occupation, the owner as of
the first day of each month and/or the first occupier of unit in the month
shall be assessed the administrative fees.
   (B)   Commencing on July 1, 2019, all users of the village’s solid waste
collection service shall pay a fee in the amount of $1.71 per month as and for
administrative fees in order to ensure that sufficient funds will be available
to the village for payment of the costs associated with the administration of
the solid waste collection service for the village. This fee may be increased
on an annual basis at a rate of no more than 3%.
   (C)   The monthly fee created in division (B) above shall be paid by all
users of the village’s solid waste collection service in addition to any and
all other charges which they pay for usage of the village’s solid waste
collection service.
   (D)   The fees collected pursuant to this section shall be paid into the
village’s General Fund.
   (E)   Users may suspend collection of solid waste only if the residential
unit or business unit is unoccupied for an entire month. Further, to be
eligible to suspend solid waste collection services, the user must also suspend
sewer and water services to the unit. Such request must be made in writing more
than 21 days in advance of the requested suspension date and must state the
requested period of suspension, as well as state compliance with the other
provisions of this section. There will be no partial month proration of service
nor of the fees for collection service.
(Ord. 1564-19, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 50.02 REGULATION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE VILLAGE DUMPING GROUNDS.
   (A)   There shall be created the municipal office of custodian of the
village dump, which officer shall have charge of said dumping grounds with full
authority to direct the dumping of any refuse of any kind therein, provided
said authority be consistent with the laws of the state and the laws of the
municipality.
   (B)   Said dump shall be open Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday during
the hours from 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., or as otherwise posted at the entrance.
   (C)   The following charges shall be made for dumping refuse at the village
dump: $0.10 per small container; $0.25 per three small containers; $0.50 per
trailer, one board high; $0.75 per trailer, two boards high; and $1 per wagon
or truck; provided, however, that individual contract may be obtained from the
Mayor.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to enter the said
village dump after hours, or to dump refuse in the village dump after hours,
and it shall also be unlawful for any person or persons to dump any refuse in
the dumping grounds contrary to the direction of the custodian of the dump.
(Ord. 536, passed 10-17-1960) Penalty, see §
50.99
UNIFORM SERVICE FOR THE COLLECTION, TRANSPORTATION AND
DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE
§ 50.15 PRIVATE COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   After a contract for the collection, transportation and disposal of
solid waste has been entered into between the village and the contractor, no
person other than the contractor shall collect, transport or dispose of solid
waste within the village.
   (B)   The two exceptions to this shall be the collection, transportation and
disposal of solid waste from:
      (1)   Multi-dwelling units containing three or more households; and
      (2)   Commercial establishments.
(Ord. 1230-00, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 1412-10, passed 11-15-2010)
§ 50.16 COLLECTION FROM SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   Owners of parcels containing single and two-family dwellings in the village
are required to have solid waste collection, transportation and disposal
service provided by the contractor selected by the village, which service shall
consist of collections of not less than once per week.
(Ord. 1230-00, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 1310-03, passed 12-1-2003; Ord. 1412-10,
passed 11-15-2010)
§ 50.17 CONTAINERS OR BAGS REQUIRED; LOCATION.
   Each and every owner, tenant, housekeeper or other person occupying any
single- or two-family dwelling house in the village and producing solid waste
for collection, transportation and disposal shall provide containers or bags in
which to place solid waste or shall utilize a toter that may be obtained by the
contractor selected by the village. Miscellaneous items of solid waste not
placed in containers or bags shall not be collected, transported and disposed
of by the contractor after prior notice by the contractor to the generator of
such waste. All containers shall be placed so as to be visible and easily
accessible to the contractor.
(Ord. 1230-00, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 1412-10, passed 11-15-2010)
§ 50.18 RATES; BILLING.
   (A)   Rates for collection of single- and two-family dwellings shall be
determined by the bid of contractor and made part of the agreement between the
village and the contractor.
   (B)   The owner(s) of single- and two-family dwellings will be billed for
the collection, transportation and disposal of solid waste by the village as an
additional, separate item on the utility bill of the village. The owner(s) must
pay the billing when due by the due date as shown on the statement that they
receive from the village on a monthly or bi-monthly basis.
   (C)   All terms of payment and responsibility for payment shall be the same
as set forth in
Chapter 52. Failure to pay any solid waste collection, transportation and
disposal charge may result in termination of solid waste collection services or
assessment of unpaid charges as a tax lien against the property. Termination of
services for failure to pay may result in a violation of §
50.16 and be subject to a penalty as set forth in §
50.99.
(Ord. 1230-00, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 1412-10, passed 11-15-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
50.02 shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than $1 nor more than $25 for
each offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
50.15 through
50.18 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1230-00, passed 6-5-2000; Ord. 1412-10, passed 11-15-2010)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Contamination due to backflow
   
51.02   Water supply emergencies policy
   
51.03   Capacity charges; bulk water purchases
   
51.04   County Historical Society right to tap into village’s water and sewer
systems
Rates
   
51.15   Debt service fee
   
51.16   Water charges
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 CONTAMINATION DUE TO BACKFLOW.
   (A)   If, in the judgement of the Superintendent of Water, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
system, the Superintendent of Water will give notice to the water consumer to
install such an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his
or her own expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a
manner approved by the Superintendent of Water and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices as required by the Superintendent of Water.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village may enter the supply or distributing system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
Superintendent of Water of the village and by the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a made a matter
of public record and shall be repeated as often as the Superintendent of Water
shall deem necessary.
   (D)   The Superintendent of Water of the village or his, her or its duly
appointed representative shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time
any property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems thereof. On demand, the owners, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he or
she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this section.
   (E)   The Superintendent of Water of the village is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger
of contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such conditions shall have been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with the provision of this section.
(Ord. 1132-96, passed 4-15-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 WATER SUPPLY EMERGENCIES POLICY.
   (A)   When in the judgement of the Mayor, hazardous conditions caused by
drought or other water- supply interruption to the village have developed or
appear likely to develop, the Mayor may, at his or her discretion, declare a
water supply emergency.
   (B)   The effective time of a water supply emergency shall be stated in the
formal declaration.
   (C)   Whenever a water supply emergency is so declared, the Mayor shall, as
soon as possible thereafter, furnish a copy of such declaration to the local
news media and the Police Department.
   (D)   A water supply emergency shall continue until a termination
announcement is made by the Mayor.
   (E)   After a water supply emergency has been formally declared, no person
shall, during the period of the emergency, utilize water supplied by the
village municipal system for filling or maintaining swimming pools, washing
vehicles, washing structures or objects out-of-doors, water lawns, trees,
shrubs or other growing vegetation or otherwise use water outside of homes or
businesses for any purpose except for human consumption, or in the event of a
fire or life threatening emergency. The Mayor may modify the restrictions set
forth in this division (E) if, in his or her sole judgement, conditions so
warrant, by indicating said modifications in his or her declaration.
   (F)   (1)   If, in the judgement of the Mayor conditions warrant,
restrictions within homes or business, in addition to those identified in
division (E) above, may be imposed in the formal declaration of water supply
emergency thereby restricting water usage to health, sanitation and emergency
needs only.
      (2)   Sanitary, health and public welfare needs only are as follows. As
outlined by the State Environmental Protection Agency, the following uses are
considered to be exempt from mandatory water use bans: irrigation or the
production of food, maintenance of pets and livestock; watering by commercial
nurseries at a minimum level to maintain stock (to the extent that other water
sources are not available or feasible); watering by arboretums and public
gardens of national, state or regional significance where necessary to preserve
specimens; operation of municipal swimming pools or pools used by health care
facilities for patient care and rehabilitation; fire hydrants for firefighting,
health protection purposes (if specifically approved by local health officials
and the local governing body); and make-up water for air conditioning cooling
towers or refilling (specifically approved by health officials and the local
governing body) after draining for health protection or repair purposes.
(Ord. 1129A-96, passed 3-4-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03 CAPACITY CHARGES; BULK WATER PURCHASES.
   (A)   The capacity charge may be based on the meter size and not the service
line size.
   (B)   When a meter size is changed the capacity charge is based on the meter
size. The capacity charge should be based on the size of the new meter for a
period of at least one year from the date of the change. If a property owner
requests a meter change to a larger size, he or she only pays the cost
difference of the smaller meter to the larger meter. If the property owner
requests a smaller size meter, he or she pays for the entire cost of the
smaller meter and is not reimbursed for the cost of the larger meter. In either
case, the meter removed remains the property of the village.
   (C)   Water sold in bulk to tank trucks or similar vehicles or equipment
shall be charged at a rate of $3 per thousand gallons instead of the present
$2.75 per thousand gallons.
(Ord. 931-86, passed 5-19-1986)
§ 51.04 COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY RIGHT TO TAP INTO VILLAGE’S WATER AND SEWER
SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The County Historical Society be allowed to tap into the village water
and sewer system and the regular tap-in fees be waived in exchange for the
granting of the right to the village to utilize several wells on the property
owned by the Society if a need arises which necessitates the use of the wells
by the village.
   (B)   The granting of the right to the village to utilize the wells shall be
by means of a covenant attached to the deed of the property or a recorded
easement either of which shall be approved by the Council of the village.
   (C)   The cost of the attachment of the covenant to the deed or the recorded
easement shall be borne by the Society.
(Ord. 861-83, passed 8-1-1983)
RATES
§ 51.15 DEBT SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   (1)   A USER OF THE VILLAGE’S WATER SYSTEM shall be and hereby is
defined as the owner and/or occupier of each residential unit and business unit
being provided water service by the village. This definition shall explicitly
include property owners of any lot within the village as a user. Each
individual lot within the village shall be counted as a user for purposes of
this section so long as the lot has a water tap installed.
      (2)   Limitation: only one monthly water capital improvement fee shall be
collected per residential unit or business unit per month, regardless of new
ownership or occupation within that month. For purposes of determining against
whom the administrative fees shall be assessed in the case of new ownership or
occupation, the owner as of the first day of each month and/or the first
occupier of unit in the month shall be assessed the monthly water capital
improvement fee.
   (B)   Commencing on September 1, 2020, all users of the village’s water
system as herein defined shall pay a fee in the amount of $15.50 per month as
and for monthly water capital improvement fee in order to ensure that
sufficient funds will be available to the village for payment of the costs
associated with the construction of village water treatment plant.
   (C)   The monthly fee created in division (B) above shall be paid by all
users of the village’s water system in addition to any and all other charges
which they pay for usage of the village’s water system.
   (D)   The fees collected pursuant to this section shall be paid in to the
village’s Water Capital Improvement Fund.
(Ord. 1394-09, passed 3-16-2009; Ord. 1584-20, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 51.16 WATER CHARGES.
   (A)   Commencing February 1, 2021, and each year thereafter, the Village
Administrator shall be and hereby is authorized to incorporate an annual rate
increase in an amount not to exceed 5% for the rates provided for in Exhibit #1
entitled “Residential Water Service Schedule #1 “RWS”“ for residential,
nonresidential and commercial water service customers located inside the
village limits and Exhibit #2 entitled “Nonresidential and Commercial Water
Service Schedule #2 “CWS”“ for residential, nonresidential and commercial water
service customers located outside the village limits.
   (B)   The applicable rates, charges, general rules and regulations set forth
in said rate increase are effective on the April 1, 2021 billing and are
identified as follows: Exhibit #1 entitled “Residential Water Service Schedule
#1 “RWS”“ and Exhibit #2 entitled “Nonresidential and Commercial Water Service
Schedule #2 “CWS”“.
   (C)   Said attached rates, charges, general rules and regulations and
related matters shall, when placed into effect and provided herein, supersede
all existing rate charges by law regulation, related to the matters covered by
the regulations.
   (D)   The Administrator shall place in effect the attached rates, charges,
rules and regulations and related matters at the earliest practical date
following the effective date of this section as provided by law, taking into
consideration the billing changes and other related matters involved, and this
section shall take effect and be enforced from and after the earliest period
allowed by law.
   (E)   Schedule No. 1:
SCHEDULE NO. 1 “RWS”
RESIDENTIAL WATER SERVICE
Availability and Applicability:
      (1)   This schedule is only available for strictly residential service
supplied to individual residences, apartments, mobile homes or other dwelling
units served through a single meter. Where the service is used for other than
strictly residential purposes, the village’s nonresidential rate shall apply.
See elsewhere as to “Billing for Multiple Dwelling Units”.
      (2)   The furnishing and utilization of water service and the
availability of new water connections outside village limits, including
extensions or enlargements shall conform to village’s water main extension
policy and general rules and regulations, which are a part of the schedule as
it is fully written herein.
Net Rate per Month or Part Thereof per Service: The new billing shall be the
sum of the charges set forth under (1) and (2) below. If meters are read bi-
monthly, the rate blocks and applicable capacity charge set forth below shall
be multiplied by two.
      (1)   A Monthly Commodity Charge: To be computed as follows:
 
Minimum Charge per Month or Part Thereof
Gallons of Water Used per Inside Corporation Limits Outside Corporation Limits
Month
First 2,000 gallons       @$9.75 per 1,000 gallons  @ $24.38 per 1,000 gallons
Over 2,000 gallons        @$9.75 per 1,000 gallons  @ $24.38 per 1,000 gallons
 
   Plus
      (2)   A Monthly Capacity Charge:
 
Capacity of Service Inside Corporation Limits Outside Corporation Limits
0.75 or less        $0.00                     $0.00
1.00 in.            $10.46                    $26.19
1.50 in.            $31.44                    $78.57
 
Capacity of Service:
      (1)   The capacity of service shall be the nominal inside diameter in
inches of the service line extending from village’s main to consumer’s meter.
Where the service line is larger than one and one- half inches nominal
diameter, the nonresidential rate shall apply. Pursuant to Ord. 931-86, the
capacity charge may be based on the meter size.
      (2)   When a meter size is changed, the capacity charge is based on the
meter size, the capacity charge should be based on the size of the new meter
for a period of at least one year from date of change. If a property owner
requests a meter change to a larger size, he or she pays the entire cost of the
smaller meter and is not reimbursed the cost of the larger meter. In either
case, the meter removed remains the property of the village. This is pursuant
to Ord. 931-86.
Billing for Multiple Dwelling Units:
      (1)   The foregoing rates are based upon a single meter and service
supplying not more than a single dwelling unit, consisting of an individual
house, apartment, living quarters or mobile home.
      (2)   Where a single metered service supplies more than a single dwelling
unit or living quarters, there shall be added to the billing under the
foregoing rates and charges, an additional monthly charge of $9.75 inside and
$24.38 outside village limits for each additional dwelling unit or living
quarters served through a single meter, up to a maximum of four units.
      (3)   Where more than four dwelling units or apartments, mobile homes or
other living quarters are served through one meter, Schedule “CWS” shall apply.
All future multiple dwelling units or apartments that are not individually
metered and plumbed shall likewise be billed under Schedule “CWS”.
Metering for Sewage Billing Purposes: See Sewage Service Schedule “RSS”.
Minimum Charge per Month or Part of Thereof:
      (1)   After service has been established, the total billing for each
month or part thereof shall thereafter be the sum of the foregoing charges (A)
(2,000 gallon minimum) and (B) but in no event shall the billing per month be
less than the following:
 
Minimum Charge per Month or Part Thereof
Service Line Size Inside Corporation Limits Outside Corporation Limits
0.75 in.          $19.50                    $48.76
1.00 in.          $29.96                    $74.95
1.50 in.          $50.94                    $127.33
 
      (2)   If more than one dwelling unit is supplied through one meter, the
applicable minimum charge shall be multiplied by the number of dwelling units
involved. If billed bi-monthly, the applicable minimum charge shall be
multiplied by two.
Terms of Payment: The foregoing rates and charges are net and reflect the
discount applicable from the gross rates, if all accounts are paid on or before
the date specified on the bill. If all accounts are not so paid, the gross
rates and charges shall apply, which are 10% but not less than $1 higher than
the foregoing net rates.
Deposit and Responsibility for Payment of Bills:
      (1)   For all water service furnished within the corporation limits of
the village, the current property owner of record of the premises to which
water service was supplied - irrespective of who incurred such unpaid bills, or
when such bills were incurred, or who owned or occupied the property at the
time the bills were incurred - is responsible. Further reference as to
liability as to payment of bills, see the village’s general rules and
regulations.
      (2)   Without relieving the property owner of the responsibility for
payment of all water bills for service furnished within the corporation limits,
the village reserves the right to require a suitable deposit to secure payment
of water bills as set forth in the village’s general rules and regulations.
Interconnections with Village’s Water System Are Prohibited:
      (1)   In order to prevent contamination of village’s water supply and
resultant hazards to health, the village will, under no conditions, allow the
installation of any equipment or device that would enable a cross connection to
be made (either temporary or permanent) between village’s water supply and any
other source of supply or drainage; nor will the village permit the
installation of any piping, equipment or device that could cause back siphoning
or other conditions that could cause contamination of village’s water supply.
      (2)   The village shall have the right at all times to inspect at any
reasonable hour, the consumer’s piping system and/or equipment to make certain
that this regulation is being complied with. When any such cross connections or
hazardous equipment installations exist, the village reserves the right to
immediately shut off without notice, its water service to consumer involved. In
such an event, water service will not be re-established until the condition is
corrected at owner’s expense, to village’s satisfaction.
Water Service and Tap Charge: The initial establishment of water service is
subject to village’s applicable water and tap charges and other conditions as
set forth in the village’s general rules and regulations on file at its Water
Department Office.
Other Provisions and Conditions: See the village’s general rules and
regulations as to other provisions and conditions pertaining to application and
furnishing of service.
Sub Metering Prohibited: No consumer shall submeter or resell water service to
others. Any violation of this provision shall subject all water service to the
premises to be disconnected until the violation is corrected to the
satisfaction of the village.
   (F)   Schedule No. 2:
SCHEDULE NO. 2 “CWS”
NONRESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL WATER SERVICE
Availability and Applicability:
      (1)   This schedule is applicable for all service that is not strictly
residential in character, including residences where the service line is larger
than one and one-half inches nominal inside diameter; also, commercial and
business establishments, industrial and processing plants, apartment houses,
offices, restaurants, clubs, lodges, theaters, rest homes, hospitals, schools,
churches, motels, hotels, multiple trailer courts, tourist homes and all other
water service that is nonresidential in character.
      (2)   The furnishing and utilization of water service and the
availability of new water connections outside village limits, including systems
extensions or enlargements and the financing of same, shall conform to the
village’s water main extension policy and its general rules and regulations,
which are a part of this schedule as if fully written herein.
Net Rate per Month or Part Thereof per Service: The net billing shall be the
sum of the charges set forth under (1) and (2) below. If meters are read bi-
monthly, the rate blocks and applicable capacity and minimum charges set forth
below shall be multiplied by two.
      (1)   A Monthly Commodity Charge: To be computed as follows:
 
Quantity of Water Used Inside Corporation Limits  Outside Corporation Limits
Per Month
First 10,000 gallons   @ $12.68 per 1,000 gallons @ $31.70 per 1,000 gallons
Over 10,000 gallons    @$9.75 per 1,000 gallons   @ $24.38 per 1,000 gallons
 
   Plus
      (2)   A Monthly System Capacity Charge:
Capacity of Service Capacity Charge
                    Inside Outside
Capacity of Service Capacity Charge
                    Inside    Outside
0.75 in. or less    $0.00     $0.00
1.00 in.            $15.71    $39.28
1.25 in.            $31.44    $78.57
1.50 in.            $47.13    $117.85
2.00 in.            $94.27    $238.94
2.50 in.            $188.54   $47.31
3.00 in.            $277.05   $692.64
4.00 in.            $548.93   $1,372,34
6.00 in.            $1,571.04 $3,927.59
8.00 in.            $3,136.52 $7,841.39
 
Determination of Capacity of Service:
      (1)   The capacity of service shall be determined by the village and
shall normally be equal to the nominal inside diameter in inches of the service
line extending from the tap on village’s main to consumer’s meter. Pursuant to
Ord. 931 -86, the capacity charge may be based on the meter size.
      (2)   For service to schools, churches, hospitals, charitable
institutions and tax supported public buildings within village’s corporation
limits, the capacity charge shall be based on 50% of the service line nominal
inside diameter but not less than $94.27. This charge may also be based on the
meter size pursuant to Ord. 931 -86.
      (3)   When a meter size is changed and the capacity charge is based on
the meter size, the capacity charge should be based on the size of the new
meter for a period of at least one year from the date of the change. If a
property owner requests a meter change to a larger size, he or she pays only
the difference of the smaller meter to the larger meter.
      (4)   If the property owner requests a smaller size meter, he or she pays
for the entire cost of the smaller meter and is not reimbursed the cost of the
larger meter. In either case, the meter removed remains the property of the
village. This is pursuant to Ord. 931-86. The billing as determined above,
shall be subject to the applicable minimum charge hereinafter set forth. See
“Billing for Multiple Establishments” where more than one establishment,
business or activity is supplied through a single meter.
Billing for Multiple Establishments:
      (1)   The foregoing rates are based upon a single meter and service
supplying not more than a single establishment, business, activity or premises.
      (2)   Where a single metered service supplies more than a single
establishment, firm or business, there shall be added to the billing as
determined under the foregoing rates and charges and the applicable minimum
charges as set forth below, an additional charge of $14.15 per month inside
village limits and $35.37 per month outside village limits for each additional
establishment, firm, business or activity served through the same meter.
      (3)   The village reserves the right to require that all future business
establishments of activities located on the same premises, be individually
plumbed and metered before service is established.
Minimum Charge per Month or Part Thereof:
      (1)   After service has been established, the total billing for each
month or part thereof shall thereafter be the sum of the foregoing charges (A)
(3,000 gallon minimum) and (B) but in no event shall the total billing be less
than the following:
Capacity of Service Capacity Charge
                    Inside Outside
Capacity of Service Capacity Charge
                    Inside    Outside
0.75 in. or less    $38.04    $95.10
1.00 in.            $53.75    $134.38
1.25 in.            $69.48    $173.67
1.50 in.            $85.17    $212.95
2.00 in.            $132.31   $334.04
2.50 in.            $226.58   $566.41
3.00 in.            $315.09   $787.74
4.00 in.            $586.97   $1,467.44
6.00 in.            $1,609.08 $4,022.69
8.00 in.            $3,174.56 $7,936.49
 
      (2)   Where multiple establishments or businesses are supplied through
one meter, the applicable minimum charge shall be increased as provided above
under “Billing for Multiple Establishments”. If billed bi-monthly, the minimum
charge shall be multiplied by two.
Terms of Payment: The foregoing rates and charges are net and already reflect
the discount applicable from the gross rates if all accounts are paid on or
before the date specified on the bill. If all accounts are not so paid, the
gross rates and charges shall apply, which are 10% but not less than $1 higher
than the foregoing net rates.
Deposits and Responsibility for Payment of Bills: For all water service
furnished within the corporation limits of the village, the present property
owner of record of the land to which water service is furnished, shall be
responsible for the payment of all water bills for such service - irrespective
of who incurred such unpaid bills, or when such bills were incurred or who
owned or occupied the property at the time the bills were incurred. All unpaid
water bills shall be assessed as a tax lien against the property owner’s
liability. As to payment of bills, see the village’s general rules and
regulations.
Billing and Meter Readings: All service under this schedule shall be separately
metered and billed for each service location defined above. No meter readings
will be combined for billing purposes. For any fractional part of billing
period, all rates shall be applicable as written with no proration of rate
block or minimum charge whatever.
Direct Sales to Tank Trucks: Direct metered sales from the village’s mains may,
at the village’s option, be made to tank truck. The location, time and hour to
be specified by the Water Department. The charge for all such water furnished
shall be $25 per 1,000 gallons.
Water Service and Tap Charge: The initial establishment of water service is
subject to village’s applicable water and tap charges and other conditions as
set forth in the village general rules and regulations of file at its Water
Department office.
Private Fire Line Protection Service:
      (1)   For all fire protection on service installations made after the
effective date of this schedule and requiring a special fire service line to
serve consumer’s premises, the consumer shall install at his or her expense,
subject to village’s inspection and approval, all of the necessary complete and
separate fire line piping system, extending from consumer’s system to village’s
existing water main.
      (2)   All separate fire service lines installed after the effective date
of this schedule, shall have installed in same, an approved meter that will
accurately measure any flow of water in same and detect any illegal diversion
of water from the fire line. Said check meter and its installation are by
consumer.
      (3)   For old unmetered fire service lines, existing as of the effective
date of this schedule, village reserves the right to require the consumer or
property owner to install, at his or her expense, a suitable approved meter
installation that will accurately meter all flows in the fire service line
connections. In such an event, consumer will be given reasonable written notice
as to the date that such meter is to be installed and if not installed and in
operations by the date specified by the village, the fire service line shall be
disconnected by the village.
      (4)   After the effective date of this schedule, no separate fire service
lines or combination fire protection and regular service lines will be
installed unless 100% of the existing and future water requirements of the
premises and/or buildings to be protected by the fire service line under
consideration are furnished by the village. The charges for special fire
protection service shall be as follows:
         (a)   1.   For fire line protection service supplied through a
separate metered or unmetered fire service line and where the consumer
purchases 100% of his or her requirements from the village, the additional
monthly charge shall be as follows:
 
      Size of Separate Fire Service Line Additional Monthly Charge*
                                         Inside Village Outside Village
Up to 4.0 in.                            $78.33         $195.82
     6.0 in.                            $130.70        $326.74
     8.0 in.                            $261.36        $653.41
 
            2.   These charges for fire protection service shall not apply to
tax supported public buildings such as schools and other governmental
buildings, located within the corporation limits of village. Also said charges
shall not apply to bona fide (as determined and defined by village) tax exempt
charitable or non-profit institutions such as churches, no-profit hospitals and
the like located within village’s corporation limits.
         (b)   Where a separate fire service line is installed and where the
consumer involved does not purchase 100% of his or her water requirements from
the village: 50% of the capacity charge set forth shall apply for the size of
the fire service line involved, but in no event less than $110.06 per month.
         (c)   Where the consumer purchases 100% of his or her water
requirements from village and where all service including fire protection is
taken through a single metered service line:
            1.   No additional charge for fire line protection service shall be
made; and
            2.   No charge will be made for the water used for firefighting
purposes. Said fire flow shall be estimated by village and deducted from the
consumer’s water bill.
Line Extensions: All new line extensions, including extensions of water mains
required for fire protections, shall be paid for by the consumers involved and
in accordance with the provisions set forth in the village’s general rules and
regulations on file at village’s office.
Interconnections with Village’s Water System Are Prohibited:
      (1)   In order to prevent possible contamination of village’s water
supply and resultant hazards to health, the village will under no conditions
allow the installation of any equipment or device that would enable a cross
connection to be made (either temporary or permanent) between the village’s
water supply and any other source to supply or drainage; nor will the village
permit the installation of any piping, equipment or device that could, in
village’s opinion, cause back siphoning, excess water pressure, vacuum
conditions and the like that could cause contamination of the village’s water
supply.
      (2)   The village shall have the right at all times to inspect, at any
reasonable hour, the consumer’s piping system and/or equipment to make certain
that this regulation is being complied with. When any cross connection or
hazardous equipment installation exists, the village reserves the right to
immediately shut off, without notice, its water service to the consumer
involved. In such an event, water service will not be reestablished until the
condition is corrected to village’s satisfaction.
Metering for Sewage Billing Purpose: See Sewage Service Schedule “CWS”.
Other Provisions and Conditions: See the village’s general rules and
regulations as to other provisions and conditions pertaining to application and
furnishing of service, deposits, turn-on and turn-off of service, the making of
water taps, new extensions, the consumer’s installations, charges for special
services furnished, the disconnections, reconnection and transfer of service,
the responsibility for payment of bills and other conditions, which are a part
of the schedule the same as if written herein.
Sub Metering Prohibited: No consumer shall submeter or resell water service to
others. Any violation of this provision shall subject all water service to the
premises to be disconnected until the violation is corrected to the
satisfaction of the village.
(Ord. 1610-21, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
51.02 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. For purposes of §
51.02, each day upon which a violation occurs shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1129A-96, passed 3-4-1996)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Establishing responsibility for sewers from curb or edge of paving to
sewer main
   
52.02   Regulating future connections
   
52.03   Establishing a monthly fee for payment of debt service expenses
   
52.04   PC Workshop tap-in fee
   
52.05   Charges for geothermal type units
Rules and Regulations Covering Sewage Treatment Service
   
52.20   Definitions
   
52.21   General information
   
52.22   General conditions
   
52.23   Use of public sewer required
   
52.24   Private sewage disposal
   
52.25   Sewer tap policy and fees
   
52.26   Building sewers and connections
   
52.27   Building sewer maintenance
   
52.28   Prohibited discharges, limited discharges, compliance requirements
   
52.29   Storm water discharges
   
52.30   Sewer bill collection policy
Rates
   
52.45   Rates to be charged for services supplied
   
52.46   Operation and maintenance expenses
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 ESTABLISHING RESPONSIBILITY FOR SEWERS FROM CURB OR EDGE OF PAVING TO
SEWER MAIN.
   (A)   The village shall be responsible for all sewers from the edge of the
paving or curb line to the sewer main under the street. All sewers which are
dug out by the village shall have a clean-out “Y” installed by the village.
Such “Y” shall be paid for by the property owner.
   (B)   No excavation for sewers shall be made in any public street except by
the Village Sewer Department.
   (C)   Any sewer which requires excavation of the street, in the opinion of
the Village Sewer Department, which runs from the property under the street to
the sewer main, shall be at the expense of the village.
(Ord. 728, passed 5-5-1975) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 REGULATING FUTURE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   After January 31, 1977, it shall be unlawful for any person to make a
new connection to the village sanitary sewer system for the discharge of any
storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
cooling water, unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary sewer or to
make clean water connections to the sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this section shall
be served with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice permanently cease all
violations.
(Ord. 747-76, passed 12-6-1976) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 ESTABLISHING A MONTHLY FEE FOR PAYMENT OF DEBT SERVICE EXPENSES.
   (A)   For the purposes of the assessment of fees for the village’s sewer
capital improvement (SCI) and water capital improvement (WCI) charges, a user
shall be defined as follows:
      USER. The owner and/or occupier of each residential unit and business
unit being provided water service by the village. This definition shall
explicitly include property owners of any lot within the village as a USER.
Each individual lot within the village shall be counted as a USER for purposes
of this section so long as the lot has a sewer tap installed. Limitation: only
one monthly sewer capital improvement fee shall be collected per residential
unit or business unit per month, regardless of new ownership or occupation
within that month. For purposes of determining against whom the administrative
fees shall be assessed in the case of new ownership or occupation, the owner as
of the first day of each month and/or the first occupier of unit in the month
shall be assessed the monthly sewer capital improvement fee.
   (B)   Commencing on January 1, 2013, all users of the village’s sewer system
shall pay a fee in the amount of $5 per month in order to ensure that the
village has sufficient funds available to make debt service payments on loans
relating to the village’s sewer separation project.
   (C)   Commencing on January 1, 2014, all users of the village’s sewer system
shall pay an additional fee in the amount of $4 per month, thereby increasing
each user’s monthly fee to $9, in order to ensure that the village has
sufficient funds available to make debt service payments on loans relating to
the village’s sewer separation project.
   (D)   Commencing on January 1, 2015, all users of the village’s sewer system
shall pay an additional fee in the amount of $3 per month, thereby increasing
each user’s monthly fee to $12, in order to ensure that the village has
sufficient funds available to make debt service payments on loans relating to
the village’s sewer separation project.
   (E)   Commencing on January 1, 2016, all users of the village’s sewer system
shall pay an additional fee in the amount of $3 per month, thereby increasing
each user’s monthly fee to $15, in order to ensure that the village has
sufficient funds available to make debt service payments on loans relating to
the village’s sewer separation project.
   (F)   Commencing on July 1, 2016, all users of the village’s sewer system
shall pay an additional fee in the amount of $3 per month, thereby increasing
each user’s monthly fee to $18, in order to ensure that the village has
sufficient funds available to make debt service payments on loans relating to
the village’s sewer separation project.
   (G)   Commencing on September 1, 2020, all users of the village’s sewer
system shall pay a user fee in the total amount of $25.25, in order to ensure
that the village has sufficient funds available to make debt service payments
on loans related to the village’s sewer separation project.
   (H)   The monthly fees created in divisions (B), (C), (D), (E), (F) and (G)
above shall be paid by all users of the village’s sewer system in addition to
any and all other charges which they pay for usage of the village’s sewer
system.
   (I)   The fees collected pursuant to this section shall be paid to the
village’s Sewer Capital Improvement Fund.
(Ord. 1448-12, passed 11-19-2012; Ord. 1494-15, passed 2-2-2015; Ord. 1567-19,
passed 7-15-2019; Ord. 1585-20, passed 8-3-2020)
§ 52.04 PC WORKSHOP TAP-IN FEE.
   The PC Workshop shall be permitted to tap into the village sewer system and
be charged 50% of the regular tap-in fees.
(Ord. 869-83, passed 12-5-1983)
§ 52.05 CHARGES FOR GEOTHERMAL TYPE UNITS.
   (A)   There will be no charge to property owners that have a geothermal type
heating and/or cooling system that discharges the water into a well. For a
system that discharges in the sewer system, be it sanitary or combined, the
discharge must be metered. The meter and installation must be approved by the
village. Upon installation of the meter, the ownership and maintenance of the-
meter reverts to the village. The property owner is responsible for the initial
cost of the meter and its installation.
   (B)   If the property owner refuses to install a meter, the village shall
have the option of either disconnecting the sewer service or charging based on
the estimate of the quantity of gallons discharged into the sewer system. The
determination of the estimate will be based on the maximum pumping capacity of
the geothermal unit for the entire duration of the billing period to be
estimated.
   (C)   Any cost to the village for either disconnecting the sewer service or
determining the estimate shall be a responsibility of the property owner.
   (D)   The charges for gallons, either actual or estimated, that are
discharged into the sewer system shall be computed based on the current
commodity charge.
   (E)   Any costs or charges shall be collected in the same manner as other
sewer charges collected by the village.
(Ord. 836-82, passed 4-5-1982)
RULES AND REGULATIONS COVERING SEWAGE TREATMENT SERVICE
§ 52.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in terms of weight and concentration as milligrams
per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN (SANITARY). The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which received the discharge from soil, waste and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer, beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) beyond the foundation wall
of the building or structure.
   BUILDING SEWER (SANITARY). The part of the drainage system which extends
from the end of the building drain and conveys its discharge to the public
sewer or other place of disposal. For a user having more than one building, a
BUILDING SEWER may convey discharges from more than one building drain to the
public sewer.
   CAPITAL CHARGES. Those amounts paid by each premises connected to the
wastewater works to pay the debt service requirements and capital expenditures
to enlarge or improve the wastewater facilities.
   CAPITAL COSTS. Those expenditures, including debt service payments, to
enlarge or improve the wastewater facilities.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter, expressed in terms of milligrams per
liter.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer designed for and receiving sanitary sewage, storm
water and/or industrial wastes.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any private establishment such as restaurants, hotels,
stores, filling stations or recreational facilities with dry weather wastewater
flows less than 25,000 gallons per day and whose discharge:
      (1)   Does not interfere with the treatment process;
      (2)   Is not toxic; or
      (3)   Does not reduce the utility of the sludge.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Pollutants that the treatment plant was designed to
treat which are BOD, SS and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants
identified in the NPDES permit if the publicly owned treatment works were
designed to treat such pollutants and in fact does remove such pollutants to a
substantial degree.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person undertaking a contract under these rules and
regulations, acting directly or through a duly qualified and authorized
representative.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not compatible. (See the
definition for COMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS.)
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the wastewater works that discharges industrial
wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INFILTRATION. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system
(including building drains and building sewers) from the ground through such
means as defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manholes. INFILTRATION
does not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains and building sewers) from sources such as roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard drains, area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and
swampy areas, manhole covers, catch basins, storm waters, surface runoff,
street wash waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, infiltration.
   INSPECTOR. A duly appointed representative of the village who is responsible
for the enforcement of the specifications and quality of construction.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any private, non-profit entity or public entity such as
churches, schools, hospitals, village offices or charitable organizations with
dry weather wastewater flows less than 25,000 gallons per day whose discharge:
      (1)   Does not interfere with the treatment process;
      (2)   Is not toxic; or
      (3)   Does not reduce the utility of the sludge.
   MAY. Is permissive. (See the definition for SHALL.)
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTES. Wastes with concentrations of 200 mg/l BOD, 200 mg/
l SS and 13 mg/l P.
   NPDES PERMIT. National pollutant discharge elimination system permit as
issued by the State Ohio Environmental Protection Agency under authorization
issued by the U.S. EPA, Region V.
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT COSTS. Labor, materials, supplies,
equipment accessories and appurtenances costs required to operate the
facilities, keep the facilities in operating condition and maintain the
capacity and performance during the useful life of the treatment works for
which such works were designed and constructed.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration of hydrogen ions is expressed in moles per liter of solution.
   PHOSPHORUS. The total phosphorus content of a sample, including all of the
orthophosphates and condensed phosphates, both soluble and insoluble, and
organic and inorganic species, and referred to in Standard Methods as total
phosphorus.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination, or
the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less
harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging such pollutants into the
publicly owned treatment works. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes, by process changes or by other
means, except dilution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than three-eighths inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer subject to the jurisdiction of the village.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The cost of accessories or appurtenances, including
installation, which are necessary during the useful life of the treatment works
to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were designed and
constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. All users of the wastewater works not classified as an
industrial user, institutional user or commercial user.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SANITARY WASTES. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEGREGATED DOMESTIC WASTES. Discharges from nonresidential sources generated
from normal human biological activities, separate and distinct from industrial
trade or process discharges.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water. Unless
otherwise stated, this term shall mean a publicly owned sewer.
   SEWER RENTAL FEES. The total capital charge and user charge paid by each
premises connected to the wastewater works.
   SHALL. Is mandatory. (See the definition for MAY.)
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in rate of flow, exceeds for any period of duration longer
than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow
during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection system and/
or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The most recent edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, shall mean a drain or sewer for
conveying surface waters, ground water or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods and
referred to as filterable residue.
   TREATMENT WORKS. Any and all devices and systems used in the storage,
treatment, recycling and reclamation of domestic or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature, or necessary to recycle or reuse water at the most economical
cost over the useful life of the works, including interceptor sewers, outfall
sewers, sewage collection systems, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
site acquisition of the land that will be an integral part of the treatment
process or is used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment; or any other method or system for preventing, abating, reducing,
storing, treating, separating or disposing of wastewater, including storm water
runoff, or industrial waste, including waste in combined storm water and
sanitary sewer systems.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the treatment
works provided.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the wastewater system and/or the owner or occupant of any
property from which said discharge is made.
   USER CHARGE. The amount paid by each premises connected to the treatment
works proportionate to the service provided. This charge shall cover all
operation, maintenance and replacement costs for the treatment works.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community or segment of a community. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with any ground water, surface water and storm water
that may be present.
   WASTEWATER WORKS. Means TREATMENT WORKS.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 52.21 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The general rules and regulations of the village cover the furnishing
of sewage treatment service and the operation and extension of its sanitary and
store sewer facilities. These shall be administered by the Village
Administrator and shall apply to all such service and related facilities,
whether located within or without the village’s corporate limits. The aforesaid
services may hereinafter sometimes be referred to as utility service.
   (B)   When used hereinafter, the word UTILITY shall also be considered to be
the same as Superintendent, Sewer Department, Sewage Treatment Department,
village or Administrator.
   (C)   As hereinafter used, CONSUMER, APPLICANT, PROPERTY OWNER or OWNER
shall be construed to be any individual, firm, organization, establishment or
corporation using said utility services. Whenever the word CONSUMER is used, it
shall be considered as one and the same as any of the foregoing
identifications. In addition, whenever PERSON is used, it shall mean and be
construed as any individual, firm, corporation, company, association,
organization, society or group.
   (D)   These rules and regulations are supplementary and are included as part
of the village’s sewage rate schedules and are intended to set forth rights and
obligations of the village as well as those of the consumer or property owner
with respect to the aforesaid utility service, together with other matters
related to same.
   (E)   All of the following general rules and regulations are applicable for
all such consumers as well as to all village employees involved in the
furnishing such utility service.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 735.273, the Village Administrator shall, to the
extent necessary, prepare in writing such supplementary administrative rules,
forms and/or specifications as may be necessary to properly enforce and carry
out the intent of these general rules and regulations. Such changes shall not
require the passage of a resolution or ordinance.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 52.22 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Authority. The Village Council authorizes the Administrator to
formulate and enforce rules and regulations governing policies essential to the
operation of the treatment works under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Operation and control. The public and wastewater treatment works of
the village, including all appurtenances, are under the operation of the
Administrator and his or her authorized agents and employees. Such control
shall include all phases and fixtures of sewerage works from the point of usage
to the ultimate discharge to receiving watercourse.
   (C)   Effective date. These rules and regulations shall be effective on the
date of adoption of a resolution by the Village Council and may be amended from
time to time.
   (D)   Validity. Should any section or individual provision of the rules and
regulations be decided by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such a
decision shall not affect the validity of the rules and regulations as a whole
or any part thereof, other than that particular portion so held to be
unconstitutional or invalid.
   (E)   Enforcement. These rules and regulations shall be enforced by the
Administrator, as directed by the Village Council.
   (F)   Violation. Any infractions of the rules and regulations is a
violation. Any person, firm, group or corporation, either owner or agent who
tampers with or attempts to use facilities provided by the village without
first obtaining the necessary permits and approvals is in violation of the
rules and regulations. Any person, firm, group or corporation, either owner or
agent, that obtains a permit or approval based on false information made in
order to deceive the village shall be held in violation of the rules and
regulations.
   (G)   Misdemeanor. Any person or corporation found to be violating any
provision of the general rules and regulations except division (H) below shall
be served by the Administrator with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations or be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (H)   Protection from damage. No unauthorized person shall maliciously,
willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with
any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the sewage works.
   (I)   Jurisdiction. These rules and regulations are applicable to all
persons within the village or any other persons receiving sanitary service from
the system operated by the village.
   (J)   Agreement. All persons, successors and assigns obtaining a permit from
the village accept and agree to be bound by these rules and regulations.
   (K)   Interpretation. The provision of these rules and regulations shall be
the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of health, safety and
welfare of the constituents of the village. These rules and regulations are not
intended to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any manner interfere with any laws or
rules of any governmental units having jurisdiction that are more stringent.
Where these rules and regulations impose greater restrictions than those of
existing laws or rules, then the provisions of these rules and regulations
shall govern. These rules and regulations may be promulgated by the
Administrator to cover unusual situations.
   (L)   Personnel. Inspectors, meter readers, employees or representatives of
the village whose duty constitutes entrance upon private property shall be
equipped with proper credentials as the village may deem necessary to identify
them as agents of the village. Such authorized employees shall have access to
the premises for the proper operation and maintenance of the village
facilities. Should access of the premises be denied, the village shall
discontinue service and will not restore same until time as access is granted.
   (M)   Termination of service. The Administrator shall have the right to
terminate sewer service immediately if it is determined that the violation
produces a dangerous, toxic, odorous, destructive or other condition which in
the opinion of the Administrator cannot be tolerated.
   (N)   Limitation of access. The Administrator shall have the right to limit
sewer service if such connections will overload the treatment works as a whole
or in part, or will be detrimental to the intended design of the treatment
works.
   (O)   Limitation of wastewater parameters. The Administrator shall have the
right to control the quantity and quality of all wastewater discharged to the
treatment works. Such rights could result in the establishment or individual
discharge permits, pretreatment, facilities, flow equalization facilities or
monitoring facilities.
   (P)   Public purposes. Special terms and conditions may be made where sewer
service is used by the municipality or community for public purposes such as
public parks and the like.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.23 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner upon any public or private property within the village or in
any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or other organic or waste by the village to be objectionable as being
unsanitary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within or
adjacent to the village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village,
any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted water, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of these regulations or any ordinances.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (D)   (1)   The owner of all houses, buildings or property used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way, in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer
of the village, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this regulation within
90 days after date of official notice to do so, provided that, for the premises
in question, the foundation wall of the structure from which sewage or other
waste originates is less than 200 feet from the nearest boundary of the right-
of-way within which the sewer is located.
      (2)   OFFICIAL NOTICE shall be deemed to mean:
         (a)   Notice to connect sent to the property owner by certified
letter; or
         (b)   In the case of the completion of new sanitary sewer lines of the
village, official notice to connect shall be by a published notice published
for two consecutive weeks in a local weekly newspaper of general circulation
and the effective date of such published notice shall be the date of the second
publication.
   (E)   The Village Administrator may grant limited time extension for
connecting with the proper public sewer on written application for such time
extension in the sole judgement of the Village Administrator.
   (F)   Whenever the paving or repairing of any street or public highway shall
have been ordered by Council or Village Administrator, it shall be the duty of
the Village Administrator to serve upon such owners of property abutting upon
such street or highway, as it may deem necessary, a notice directing such
owners to make such sewer and water connections as it may designate within a
time specified therein.
   (G)   At the expiration of the time specified, if such connections are not
made as herein provided, the Village Administrator shall cause the same to be
made and the cost thereof shall temporarily be paid, by the village, which
cost, together with a penalty of 6%, shall be assessed by Council on such
property abutting on the street or highway to be paved, to be paid in cash to
the Village Treasurer, if not so paid, the Clerk of Council shall certify such
assessments to the County Auditor to be collected as other taxes are collected.
   (H)   Septic tanks: if a new building sewer is installed and it is
constructed through an existing septic tank or similar facility, the septic
tank or facility shall be abandoned. The bottom shall be cracked and the liquid
and semi-solid contents removed and disposed. The building sewer shall then be
bedded in the manner as described in §
52.26. The remainder of the tank shall then be filled with earth, stone or
other suitable materials. If the septic tank is not abandoned in an appropriate
manner, the tank becomes a health hazard and liability for the property owner.
The tank could weaken and cave in under pressure, resulting in injury to an
individual or infection from sewage borne bacteria.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.24 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available within 125
feet of the property line, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system that complies with the regulations of the County Board
of Health. Such approval will in no way obligate the village to giving any
consideration to the cost of such private sewage disposal system or building
connection thereto at such time as the owner may be required to connect into a
public sanitary or combined sewer line.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system the property owner shall first obtain a written permit from the County
Board of Health.
   (C)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all provisions of the regulations of the County Board
of Health.
   (D)   The property owner shall operate and maintain his or her private
sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and in conformance
to said Board of Health regulations and at no expense to the village.
   (E)   At such times as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, within 90 days of such availability, the
property owner shall at his or her expense install an approved direct building
sewer connection to village’s sanitary sewer. All septic tanks, cesspools and
similar private sewage disposal facilities should then be abandoned and filled
with suitable material and in the manner approved by the Superintendent.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the State EPA and the County
Health Offices.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 52.25 SEWER TAP POLICY AND FEES.
   (A)   Tap charges and policies.
      (1)   Sewer District I: (Emerald Acres).
         (a)   Generally. Pursuant to an agreement with the County
Commissioners, the village has agreed to accept and treat sewage from this
area. The agreement is dated May 26, 1972, and is for a period of 20 years. The
outside corporation tap fee of $135 shall apply. Applicants must also obtain
authorization from the Sanitary Engineer of the county. Delinquent bills may be
extended upon the tax duplicate. The sewer in this area is strictly a sanitary
sewer and is for sanitary waste only. Previously before an applicant could
obtain a permit from the village, the applicants had to contact James Noneman
and arrange to pay him $380, which was the applicants cost to offset the
original extension charges. Proof by means of some type of documentation had to
be furnished to the village proving that Mr. Noneman has been contacted and the
proper arrangements made. As of January 8, 1988, Mr. Noneman waived this
requirement.
         (b)   Payment to village.
 
If village does the work:    $135 tap fee
                            $20 permit and inspection fee
                            $465 or time and materials, whichever is less
If contractor does the work: $135 tap fee
                            $20 permit and inspection fee
 
      (2)   Sewer District II.
         (a)   1.   Pursuant to an agreement with the County Commissioners, the
village has agreed to accept and treat sewage from this area. The agreement is
dated January 20, 1982 and is for a period of 40 years. The village will not
own this line until the expiration of the 40 years.
            2.   The outside corporation tap fee of $135 shall apply. The
village must receive notification from the county that the applicant has
arranged with the county to pay the tap fee to the county. The county will then
pay the village the tap fee.
         (b)   Payment to village.
 
If village does the work:    $135 tap fee
                            $20 permit and inspection fee
                            $465 or time and materials, whichever is less
If contractor does the work: $135 tap fee
                            $20 inspection fee
 
      (3)   Utterback Subdivision (Lots 1—24).
         (a)   Agreement. Pursuant to an agreement with Mr. Utterback and the
Village Council at the meeting June 18, 1979, and a policy adopted by Council
at a meeting October 20, 1980, the following charges shall apply.
         (b)   Payment to village.
 
If the village does the work: $90 tap fee
                             $15 permit and inspection fee
                             $310 or time and material, whichever is less
If contractor does the work:  $90 tap fee
                             $15 permit and inspection fee
 
      (4)   Countryside Estates (Lots 1—42).
         (a)   Generally. An agreement was made by the Village Council at a
meeting held April 2, 1979 concerning Lots 1—42 as recorded in Volume 7, Page
53 of the plat records of the county. Pursuant to this agreement and a policy
adopted by Council at a meeting held October 20, 1980, the following charges
shall apply.
         (b)   Payment to village.
 
If village does the work:    $15 permit and inspection fee
                            $310 or time and materials whichever is less
If contractor does the work: $15 permit and inspection fee
 
      (5)   Klingler Addition.
         (a)   Generally. The sewer taps were paid when the property owners
were assessed for the sewer that was installed. The tap fees were $50.
         (b)   Payment to village.
 
If village does work:        $15 permit and inspection fee
                            $310 or time and materials, whichever is less
If contractor does the work: $15 permit and inspection fee
 
      (6)   Areas inside corporate limits not excluded elsewhere.
         (a)   Generally. Pursuant to policy agreed on by Village Council at a
meeting held October 20, 1980, the following charges shall apply.
         (b)   Payment to village.
 
If village does the work: $90 tap fee
                         $15 permit and inspection fee
                         $310 or time and material whichever is less
If contractor does work:  $90 tap fee
                         $15 permit and inspection fee
 
      (7)   Areas outside corporate limits not excluded elsewhere.
         (a)   Generally. Before a connection is made, the property owner shall
have an approved covenant properly executed and attached to the deed of the
premises requesting sewer service. See division (B) below relating to
covenants. In maintaining the intent of a policy agreed on by the Village
Council at a meeting held October 20, 1980 the following charges apply:
         (b)   Payment to village.
 
If village does the work:     $135 tap fee
                             $20 permit and inspection fee
                             $465 or time and materials, whichever is less
If contractor does this work: $135 tap fee
                             $20 permit and inspection fee
 
      (8)   Areas inside or outside the corporation limits that are not
connected but have been paying sewer charges. For existing properties inside
and outside the corporation limits that have been paying sewage charges to
village, but for some unknown reason have not been connected to the village’s
sewage system, the tap fees shall be waived. This is pursuant to a policy
discussed by Council at meetings held September 21, 1981 and October 20, 1980.
   (B)   Covenant.
      (1)   Excluding Sewer District I and II, if a property owner who has a
premises outside the corporation limits and would like to connect to and/or
have his or her sewage treated by the sewage system of the village, the
property upon which the premises is located shall be annexed to the village. In
the event that annexation of the area involved is delayed due to legal or other
causes beyond the control of the applicants for sewer service, the village
reserves the right to furnish sewer subject to the following:
         (a)   All requirements of these general rules and regulations have
been complied with;
         (b)   The property owner of each premises to be served outside the
corporation limits shall, before sewer service is established, execute a
covenant to run with the deed (to be properly recorded), or an alternative
method that would be subject to the approval of the Village Solicitor, covering
the property involved and stating, that upon demand by the village and within
ten days of said demand, the property owner shall initiate and sign a petition,
requesting that the owner’s property be annexed to the village; and
         (c)   In the event property owner fails to execute said annexation
petition, the village reserves the right to disconnect and to discontinue all
sewer service to the premises involved after the village has given three months
written notice to the property owner to that effect.
      (2)   The foregoing generally applies but is not necessarily limited to
new multiple lots, subdivisions or developments and to the extent applicable
applies to requests for sewer service to individual lots.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 52.26 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition. No unauthorized person shall uncover, use, alter,
disturb, make any connections to or openings into, or otherwise use any village
sewer or its appurtenances, without first obtaining a written permit or
authorization from the Superintendent.
   (B)   Registration required. No person, firm or corporation shall act or
engage in the business of building sewer construction, repair, removal,
alteration or demolition for others within the village unless such person, firm
or corporation shall have received a certificate of registration therefore.
Such requirement shall pertain to building sewers outside the corporate limits
if the building sewers are connected to the village sewage system and/or the
sewage from the building sewer is to be in some manner treated by the village’s
sewage system. However, the owner-occupant of a dwelling may carry on any of
the work governed by this subchapter without such certificate or registration,
provided that such owner shall obtain a permit for any such work and shall call
for inspection as provided herein.
   (C)   Certificate of registration. The Village Administrator shall issue the
certificate of registration only after sufficient evidence is presented by the
applicant to qualify him or her for the certificate. The Village Council, upon
recommendation by the Village Administrator, shall have the power to suspend or
revoke any certificate of registration for violations of these rules and
regulations after a public hearing has been held for such action.
   (D)   Registration fee. Any applicant for a new registration certificate
shall pay a fee of ____ to the village which certificate shall be in effect
until the end of the calendar year. Any holder of a current registration
certificate shall, upon payment of _____ be issued a renewal thereof, provided
however that the registrant applies and pays the renewal fee on or before
January 10. Failure to do this shall cause the forfeiture of the existing
certificate of registration and such holder shall be forbidden to perform any
work governed by these rules and regulations until a renewal certificate is
issued.
   (E)   Permit required. A sewer permit shall be required of all property
owners for residential and commercial service, and for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes. In any case, the owner or his or
her agent shall make application on a form furnished by the village. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgement of the Superintendent. A
permit and inspection fee of $15 for each residential, commercial or any
industrial builder shall be paid the Superintendent at the time the application
is filed. For service to properties outside the corporation limits, the permit
and inspection fee is $20. In addition to the permit and inspection fee, the
applicable tap fee for service inside and/or outside the corporation limits,
shall be charged.
   (F)   Inspection. Employees of the village shall make an inspection within
24 hours after notice is given to the Utilities Office (399-4011) that the
installation is ready for inspection, unless such inspection would fall on a
Saturday, Sunday or a holiday. In such an event, the inspection may have to be
conducted on the next regular working day from Monday through Friday following
that Saturday, Sunday or holiday.
   (G)   Costs and expense. All costs and expense incident to the installation
and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner
shall indemnify the village from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (H)   Building sewer service line.
      (1)   A separate and independent building sewer service line shall be
provided for every building whose foundation wall is less than 200 feet from
the nearest boundary of the right-of-way within which the trunk line sewer is
located. However, upon the written consent of the Village Administrator and a
motion concurred to by a majority of Council, two buildings may use the same
sewer as follows.
         (a)   Where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and both
buildings may be served from the same building sewer. Each building shall be
considered a separate sewer connection and subject to the appropriate
applicable charges and separately charged.
         (b)   Subject to prior approval of the Superintendent, a common
building sewer may be used for sewage discharge from two adjacent buildings
where inadequate right-of-way is available. In such an event separate permits
and fees shall be required for each building.
         (c)   Other exceptions will be reviewed on an individual case.
      (2)   Before such permission is granted, an agreement running with the
land establishing the relationship between the properties must be shown to the
Administrator and Council.
   (I)   Old building sewers. Old building sewers may be used for new buildings
only when same has been determined by the Superintendent by means of actual
examination and tests, to conform to village’s specifications as to adequacy,
condition and the like.
   (J)   Approval. All sewer pipe and accessory materials and the installation
of same shall be approved by the Superintendent and shall conform to any
applicable Plumbing Code.
   (K)   Size of pipe. The size of the building sewer pipe shall be subject to
the approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the nominal inside
diameter be less than four inches. Where a common building sewer is used to
serve more than one building, and for building sewers used for commercial or
industrial purposes, the nominal inside pipe diameter shall be specified by the
Superintendent but same shall not be less than six inches nominal inside
diameter.
   (L)   Building sewer for family dwellings.
      (1)   The building sewer for a one-, two- or three-family dwelling shall
be at least four inches nominal inside diameter. The building sewer for all
commercial, industrial or institutional user shall be at least six inches
nominal inside diameter. The building sewer shall be connected to the building
drain by using a flexible neoprene coupling with stainless steel clamps or a
solid watertight connector. A building sewer shall be laid in undisturbed earth
using premium joint pipe as listed.
      (2)   Cleanouts shall be installed as follows:
         (a)   One within ten feet from the building;
         (b)   One every 100 feet of length to the sanitary sewer, or, at any
change in direction greater than 45 degrees; and
         (c)   One in the street right-of-way, the location of which shall be
determined by the village.
   (M)   Ground surface. The cleanout shall extend to the ground surface. A
removable waterproof cap shall be placed at the top of the cleanout.
   (N)   Materials. The building sewer shall be constructed of one of the
following:
      (1)   Cast iron pipe with lead and caulked joints (ES-188-61);
      (2)   Cast iron pipe no/hub using neoprene gasket and stainless steel
band (CISPS 301-64);
      (3)   Vitrified clay sewer pipe conforming to ASTM-700. Joints shall meet
ASTM-C425, type III using wedgeloc “O” Rings;
      (4)   Aerylonitrite-Butadiene-Styrene (ABS) “extra strength” wall plastic
drain pipe meeting ASTM-D2680 material specifications;
      (5)    Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) meeting ASTM-3034 specifications
(Schedule 20 thin wall pipe); and
      (6)   Plastic pipe meeting Schedule 40-Pressure Pipe and National
Sanitation Foundation (NSF) approval.
   (O)   Joints. Joints for the building sewer pipe shall be the type that are
approved and in accordance with the latest ASTM specification that pertain to
the type of material of which the building is constructed. All joints between
piping of different materials shall be made with either flexible neoprene
couplings with stainless steel clamps or a solid water tight connector. All
joints shall be gastight and watertight.
   (P)   Bedding. Bedding is required for the installation of the complete
building sewer and shall be put in according to ASTM specification D 2321-72
using #6 or #67 granular material to at least the spring line of the pipe. The
pipe shall be laid on at least four inches of the granular material. Where
necessary, bell holes shall be shaped in the granular material.
   (Q)   Backfill. When backfilling the trench with excavated material, the
material should first be put in by hand do a point at least six inches above
the pipe. Care should be taken to use as much fine material as possible. If the
remainder of the excavated material is backfilled with equipment, the operation
should be at an angle to the trench with the material being put in gradually.
   (R)   Inspection and cleanout riser in street right-of-way.
      (1)   In the building sewer that connects to village’s trunk line sewer,
the property owner shall install at his or her expense and adjacent to the
property line, (the location of which shall be determined by the
Superintendent) a vertical six-inch riser for inspection and cleanout purposes.
The building sewer extending between this riser to the “Y” branch installed at
trunk line sewer, shall be not less than six inches nominal inside diameter.
      (2)   At the point on the building sewer, where the riser is to extend up
to the finished grade level, there shall be installed a standard “Y” branch
with the branch to slope downstream with the building sewer. The barrel of the
“Y” shall be not less than six inches nominal inside diameter.
      (3)   There shall be installed in the six-inch riser pipe, at the point
of the riser connection to the “Y” branch a suitable six inch curved fitting
that will result in a continuous smooth curve from the bottom of the riser
through the “Y” branch and extending through the six-inch building sewer to the
“Y” branch connection at the trunk line sewer.
      (4)   The length of the six-inch riser shall be such so that when fitted
with a suitable fitting and cap, the top of the cap will be flush with the
finished grade line.
      (5)   The upstream six-inch diameter end of the riser “Y” branch barrel,
shall be connected to the building sewer of not less than four inches diameter,
using a reducer if required.
      (6)   No backfilling of the building sewer, cleanout riser and
appurtenances shall be made until installation has been inspected and approved
by the Superintendent. The backfilling and its method shall also be inspected
and approved by the Superintendent.
      (7)   The entire riser installation shall be considered as part of the
building sewer and its connection to the trunk line sewer. Its entire cost
installed with related appurtenances shall be paid for by the property owner.
      (8)   If a property owner does not have an approved inspection and
cleanout riser and has to have his or her existing building sewer excavated at
a location where an inspection and cleanout riser would be permitted, the
property owner must have am inspection and cleanout riser installed at his or
her expense.
      (9)   The installation of the riser shall be as close as possible to the
trunk line sewer.
   (S)   Uniform grade. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade in
straight alignment in so far as possible. Changes in direction shall be made
only with properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (T)   Slope.
      (1)   The slope for a four inch sewer, wherever practical, shall be one-
fourth inch per foot. This means that in 100 lineal feet of building sewer the
difference in elevation should be 25 inches. The slope must not be less than
one-eighths inch per foot or 12.5 inches per 100 feet.
      (2)   The slope for a six-inch sewer must not be less than one-eighths
inch per foot or 12.5 inches per 100 feet.
      (3)   The slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of
the inspector.
   (U)   Elevation. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor.
   (V)   Depth. The building sewer shall extend to the building at a depth that
will provide adequate protection from freezing. In order to prevent weakening
of foundation walls, no building sewer shall be laid parallel to and within
three feet of any load bearing wall.
   (W)   Excavations. All excavations required for the installation of building
sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the
Superintendent. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
ASTM specifications except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has
been inspected. The inside of every sewer after it is laid must be left smooth
and clean throughout its entire length, and be true to line and grade.
   (X)   Lifted. In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to
permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains
shall be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building
sewer. No water operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (Y)   Where connection made. The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall be made at the “Y” or “T” branch designated for that
property if such branch is available at a suitable location. Any connection not
made at the designated “Y” or “T” branch in the main sewer shall be made only
as directed by the inspector.
   (Z)   New connection. Any new connection of the building sewer to the public
sewer shall be made by means of a “Y” branch, not a tee.
   (AA)   Connection. The connection of the building sewer into the public
sewer shall be made at the “Y” branch, if such branch is available at a
suitable location. If the public sewer is eight inches in diameter or less, and
no properly located “Y” branch is available, the owner shall at his or her
expense install a “Y” branch in the public sewer at the location approved by
the Superintendent. Where the public sewer is greater than eight inches in
diameter, and no properly located “Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be
cut into the public sewer with a compatible saddle installed at the owner’s
expense to receive the lateral, with entry in the downstream direction at an
angle. The invert of the lateral at the point of connection shall be at an
elevation at least one-half the pipe diameter of the public sewer above the
invert of said sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made, and the connection
made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete.
   (BB)   Notification. The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the
said inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
said inspector or his or her representative.
   (CC)   Barricades. All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in manner satisfactory to the said
municipality.
   (DD)   Municipality liability. The municipality shall in no event be held
responsible for claim made against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or
service pipes, or by reason of any other interruption of the service caused by
the breaking of machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person
shall be entitled to damages nor have any portion of a payment refunded for any
interruption.
   (EE)   Clear water connections. No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of
surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer. Any
existing clear water connections, i.e., downspouts to separate sanitary sewers
shall be eliminated within 30 days of receipt of notice from the Village
Administrator.
   (FF)   Inspection; reasonable hours. The premises receiving sanitary sewer
services shall at all reasonable hours be subject to inspection by duly
authorized personnel of the municipality.
   (GG)   Test. The sewer, drain, building sewer, or connection thereto, at the
Superintendent’s request, may be subject to a test in the presence of the
Superintendent. A water test shall be made as follows. The building sewer, or a
portion thereof, shall be tested by inserting a test plug at the point of
connection of building sewer with the public sewer and the building sewer
filled so as to produce a suitable head of water. The water shall be kept in
the building sewer, or in that portion under test, for at least 15 minutes
before inspection starts; the building sewer shall then be watertight at all
points. An air test may be applied in lieu of a water test upon acquiring prior
approval from the Superintendent. The final results of the air test shall be
such so as to produce a tight system equivalent to that produced under the
water test.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.27 BUILDING SEWER MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Building sewer maintenance - village.
      (1)   For building sewers that do not have an approved inspection and
cleanout riser. The village will maintain the building sewer from the property
line to and including the sewer tap at the trunk line sewer.
      (2)   For building sewers that have an approved inspection and cleanout
riser. The village will maintain the building sewer from and including the
inspection and cleanout riser to and including the sewer tap at the trunk line
sewer.
   (B)   Building sewer maintenance - property owner. If the property does not
have an approved inspection and cleanout riser and has an obstruction in his or
her building sewer, it is the property owner’s responsibility to determine that
the obstruction is not between his or her building and the property line. If
the property owner determines that the obstruction is in the street right-of-
way, it becomes the responsibility of the village. If the village has to
excavate or use other means to determine that the obstruction is actually on
the property owners side of the property line, the cost involved for the time
and materials used by the village shall be charged to the property owner. An
inspection and cleanout riser shall be installed either by the village,
property owner or contractor.. The complete installation shall be at the
expense of the property owner. The property owner shall also be responsible for
the backfill and replacement or repair of sidewalks, curbs and streets.
Regardless of who made the installation, the property owner is responsible for
the permit and inspection fee.
   (C)   If obstruction is in street right-of-way. The village will excavate to
the building sewer. The village will replace, clean or repair the building
sewer. An inspection and cleanout riser shall be installed either by the
village, property owner or contractor at the expense of the property owner.
Such installation shall include the installation and connection of the “Y” to
the building sewer. At the request of the property owner, the village will
backfill the trench. The village will either leave the material to settle or
level it even with the ground surface at the request of the property owner. If
it is leveled, the property owner will be responsible to fill and keep level to
the ground surface to areas that will later settle. The property owner shall be
responsible for the replacement of any sidewalk or curbing that was removed or
damaged. Regardless of who made the installation, the property owner is
responsible for the permit and inspection fee.
   (D)   Installation of inspection and cleanout riser at property owners
request. If the property owner is not having a problem with his or her building
sewer but requests that an inspection and cleanout riser be installed, the
complete installation of the inspection and cleanout riser shall be the
responsibility of the property owner or his or her contractor and the complete
cost of the installation shall be the responsibility of the property owner. The
property owner is responsible for the permit and inspection fee.
   (E)   Common building sewer. Where two or more properties use the same
building sewer, the village will be responsible only to the property line of
the first property served.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983)
§ 52.28 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES, LIMITED DISCHARGES, COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges.
      (1)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged any of the following described waters or waste to any public
sewer:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 180°F;
         (b)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million, by weight, of fat, oil or grease;
         (c)   Any gasoline, benzine, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
         (d)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
         (e)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
rags, feathers, tar, plastic, wood, paunch manure or any other solid or viscous
substances capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
         (f)   Any waters or wastes having pH lower than (5.5) or higher than
(9.0) or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the treatment works;
         (g)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance
in sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment
process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the treatment works;
         (h)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended or setteable solids of
such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials at the sewage treatment plant; and
         (i)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance or hazard to life or of preventing entry into sewers for their
maintenance and repair.
      (2)   In addition, all substances deemed toxic or hazardous in any
concentration by the Administrator of U.S. EPA at present and in the future,
pursuant to § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 USC § 1317(a), shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   Limited discharges.
      (1)   The following described substances, materials, waters, or waste
shall be limited in discharges to the treatment works from all users to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the treatment works or
wastewater treatment process; will not have an adverse effect on the receiving
stream; will not cause violations of the NPDES regulations; or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
Administrator may set limitations more severe than the limitations established
in the regulations below, or in §
52.25(A), if in the Administrator’s opinion much more severe limitations are
necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming this opinion as to the
acceptability, the Administrator will give consideration to such factors as the
quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, the wastewater treatment plant, degree
of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors.
      (2)   The limitations or restrictions on material or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the treatment works which shall not be
violated without approval of the Administrator are as follows:
         (a)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C) at
point of entrance to public sewer;
         (b)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
         (c)   Any wastes containing iron, chromium, magnesium, copper, zinc
and similar toxic wastes in concentrations which may interfere with the
treatment works;
         (d)   Any waters or wastes containing odor-producing substances
exceeding limits which may be established by the Administrator;
         (e)   Any waters or wastes containing more than 100 mg/l of either
soluble fats, oil, emulsions or grease;
         (f)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Administrator in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (g)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein;
         (h)   Waters or wastes containing substances which:
            1.   Are not amenable to treatment or reduction by the wastewater
treatment processes employed;
            2.   Are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the
wastewater treatment plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other
agencies having jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters; or
            3.   Results in the discharge of substances promulgated by the
Administrator of U.S. EPA pursuant to § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act to be
toxic or hazardous.
         (i)   Any water or wastes which, by interaction with other water or
wastes in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended
solids which interfere with the public sewer or create a condition deleterious
to the treatment works and treatment processes. The Administrator shall require
all discharges to conform to all NPDES permit requirements and any other in
specified state or federal regulations;
         (j)   Any water or waters which produce a color which could interfere
with the treatment process, analytical tests or impart an unnatural color to
the treatment plant’s effluent;
         (k)   Any substance which exerts a significant chlorine demand over a
30-minute test period. Limits of chlorine demand shall be as established by the
Sanitary Engineer;
         (l)   Any water or wastes having an average 24 hour biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD5) greater than 200 mg/l or a chemical oxygen demand (COD) greater
than 500 mg/l. Either BOD or COD will be used, not both. The option shall be
selected by the village;
         (m)   Any water or wastes containing more than 200 parts per million
by weight of suspended solids; and
         (n)   Any average daily wastewater flow that represents 2% or more of
the total wastewater flow at the treatment plant.
      (3)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §
52.25(A) or (B) and which in the judgement of the Administrator may interfere
with, pass through, or otherwise be incompatible with the treatment works,
wastewater treatment processes or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Administrator may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
         (d)   Charge for the additional cost incurred in treating or handling
extra strength wastes or unusual discharges; and
         (e)   Contract for a special agreement or arrangement with any user
whereby any waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted for
treatment, subject to payment in proportion to cost incurred.
   (C)   Reserves the right. If the 24 hour sewage flow from a premises is
determined by village to be greater than 2% of the total 24 hour sewage flow to
village’s treatment plant, the village reserves the right to require the owner
of the premises involved to install such storage, pumping facilities and other
appurtenances as are required to control the quantity and rate of discharge of
the sewage flow involved so as to not interfere with normal operation of
village’s treatment plant. Such facilities shall be installed, owned, operated
and maintained at owner’s expense.
   (D)   Inspection manhole to check the sewage discharge. The village reserves
the right to require the property owner of the premises involved to install a
suitable inspection manhole in the building sewer discharge line, so that
observation, sampling, testing and measuring of the sewage discharge can be
made by village. The inspection manhole shall conform to village’s
specifications and shall be installed, owned and maintained at property owner’s
expense. In the event that no inspection manhole has been installed, samples
may be taken and tests may be made by the Superintendent at the nearest
downstream manhole located beyond the point where the building sewer is
connected.
   (E)   Destructive sewage discharge. As an emergency measure, in the event
that the sewage discharge is destructive to village’s sewage treatment process
or its sewer system, the Village Administrator is empowered to take immediate
steps to stop such destruction by giving one hour notice to the consumer and
shutting off the supply of all of the village water supply (except minimum
water flow required for strictly sanitary purposes only) to the offending
consumer until the condition is corrected.
   (F)   All measurements, tests and analysis. All measurements, tests and
analysis of the characteristics of water and wastes to which reference is
herein made, shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater as published by the American Public Health
Association and shall be determined at the inspection manhole previously
specified. In the event that no such inspection manhole has been required, the
nearest downstream manhole to which the building sewer is connected, shall be
used to check the sewage discharge.
   (G)   Pretreatment of destructive sewage. In the event that the Village
Administrator has determined that objectionable sewage waste of the foregoing
character is being discharged into village’s sewer system, the consumer shall
pretreat the sewage or take such other steps as may be necessary that will
reduce the objectionable sewage characteristics or constituents, including rate
of flow, to within the maximum limit herein specified. The plans,
specifications and other pertinent information pertaining to such propose
preliminary treatment shall be submitted to the Village Administrator for his
or her written approval in advance of commencement of any construction work.
   (H)   Surcharge for destructive sewage.
      (1)   As an alternate to the consumer providing the necessary preliminary
treatment so as to bring the characteristics of his or her sewage waste to
acceptable limits and if such waste can be adequately handled by village’s
system except for the abnormal treatment and processing expense, the Village
Administrator may charge the offending consumer the rates and charges set forth
in the applicable sewage rate schedule plus the following surcharges:
         (a)   One percent for each 5 ppm or fraction thereof that the BOD5
exceeds 200 ppm. 0.4% for each 5 ppm or fraction thereof that the COD exceeds
500 ppm;
         (b)   Six-tenths percent for each 5 ppm or fraction thereof by weight
that suspended solids exceeds 200 ppm; and
         (c)   Twenty-five percent whenever the hydrogen ion concentration of
industrial wastes as measured by the pH value is less than 5.5 or greater than
9.0.
      (2)   Said surcharges shall continue until proper corrective measures
have been made by the property owner and same are in continuous operation.
   (I)   Oil and grease sewage requirements. Where liquid fuels, lubricating
oils and grease; and also sand are handled in bulk or in package form and
automobiles, trucks, tractors and other internal combustion equipment is
serviced on the premises (including car and equipment washers), it shall be
mandatory that the property owner install at his or her expense a suitable
grease, oil and sand interceptor or separator so as to prevent the discharge of
such waste into village’s sewer system. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the Administrator and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning; also inspection by the Superintendent. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of substantial construction,
watertight and equipped with easily removal covers which when bolted in place
shall be gastight and watertight. All grease, oil and sand interceptors shall
be installed, owned and maintained by the property owner at his or her expense
and shall be maintained and kept in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
   (J)   Inspection of premises to check sewage discharge. The Superintendent
or other authorized village employees shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing of sewage discharges into village sewers, including the use of
standard dye and/or smoke testing methods to determine the source and flow of
sewage being discharged into village’s sewer system.
   (K)   Individual industrial users shall pay all service and investment costs
involved. The sewage waste from all industrial users shall be periodically
tested and analyzed by the village to determine the treatment and the resultant
operation, maintenance, investment and replacement costs required to treat such
sewage waste so that the effluent discharged from village’s sewage treatment
plant conforms to the Federal Environmental Protection Agency standards (EPA).
To the extent that such determined costs exceed those required to treat
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences, such increased
costs shall be added to village’s basic rate and charges set forth in its
individual Sewage Service Schedule No. 2 “CSS” and the industrial user involved
shall be billed and charged accordingly.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.29 STORM WATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof drainage, foundation drains, subsoil
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process water to any sanitary
sewer. Where existing roof drainage is not properly connected, it shall be
replaced or repaired in accordance with these regulations.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated combined/storm sewers, or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon the approval of the
Superintendent to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.30 SEWER BILL COLLECTION POLICY.
   (A)   Mail. Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the
municipality will be mailed to the customer at the address listed on the
application, unless a change of address has been filed in writing at the
business office of the municipality; and the municipality shall not otherwise
be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice, nor will the customer be
excused from non-payment of a bill or from any performances required in said
notice.
   (B)   Combination of bills. Bills for sewer service shall be combined with
bills for water service. Bills are payable at the business office of the
municipality (208 North Williams Street, 399-4011). Bills will be sent out
monthly for most commercial and industrial accounts and bi-monthly for most
residential accounts.
   (C)   Delinquent notice. If a delinquent notice is not paid when due, the
water and/or sewer service to the user shall be subject to discontinuance, or
other measures as state law will allow.
   (D)   Bill collection.
      (1)   Monthly billing.
         (a)   The bill is sent out on the last working day of the month.
         (b)   The bill is due on or about the tenth day of the second month.
The due date is given on the bill. If the bill is not paid on or by the due
date, a 10% penalty is added.
         (c)   A second bill is sent out the last working day of the second
month. On this second bill is included the arrears (unpaid and overdue debts)
including the 10% penalty.
         (d)   The second bill is due on or about the tenth day of the third
month. The due date is on the bill. If the second bill is not paid on or by the
due date, a second 10% penalty is added.
         (e)   If the second bill plus the second 10% penalty has not been
paid, a delinquent notice is sent out on or about the seventeenth day of the
third month. The delinquent notice includes the second 10% penalty.
         (f)   The delinquent notice states that if their account is not
settled by a specified date, the water will be shut off without further notice.
The specified date, whenever possible, will be the last working day of the
third month.
         (g)   If the property owner cannot make payment in full and would like
to arrange a partial payment plan, he or she should do so after the delinquent
notice has been sent out and before the delinquent notice due date.
         (h)   If the water has to be shut off, a $10 charge is made for making
the trip to shut off the water even if the consumer pays the bill at the time
the trip is made.
      (2)   Bi-monthly billing.
         (a)   The bill is sent out on the last working day of the month.
         (b)   The bill is due on or about the tenth day of the second month.
The due date is given on the bill. If the bill is not paid on or by the due
date, a 10% penalty is added.
         (c)   On the last working day of the second month an arrears bill is
sent. Included on this is the 10% penalty.
         (d)   The arrears bill is due on or about the tenth day of the third
month. The due date is on the bill. If the arrears bill is not paid on or by
the due date a second 10% penalty is added.
         (e)   If the arrears bill plus the second 10% penalty has not been
paid a delinquent notice is sent out on or about the seventeenth day of the
third month. The delinquent notice includes the second 10% penalty.
         (f)   The delinquent notice states that, if their account is not
settled by a specified date, the water will be shut off without further notice.
The specified date, whenever possible, will be the last working day of the
third month.
         (g)   If the property owner cannot make payment in full and would like
to arrange a partial payment plan, he or she should do so after the delinquent
notice has been sent out and before the delinquent notice due date.
         (h)   If the water has to be shut off, a $10 charge is made for making
the trip to shut off the water even if the consumer pays the bill at the time
the trip is made.
   (E)   Deposits. Where the water and/or sewer service supplied to a customer
has been discontinued for non-payment of a delinquent bill, the municipality
reserves the right to request a nominal sum be placed on deposit with the
municipality for the purpose of establishing or maintaining any customer’s
credit. The reconnection will not be made until after all delinquent bills and
other charges, if any, owed by the customer to the municipality have been paid.
(Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983)
RATES
§ 52.45 RATES TO BE CHARGED FOR SERVICES SUPPLIED.
   (A)   Commencing January 1, 2013, and each year thereafter, the Village
Administrator shall be and hereby is authorized to incorporate an annual rate
increase in an amount not to exceed 3% into Exhibit 6 entitled “Nonresidential
Sewer Service Schedule No 2" of Ord. 1198-98 for nonresidential sewer service
customers located inside the village and an amount equal to two and one-half
times the inside village rate for nonresidential and commercial sewer service
customers located outside the village limits.
   (B)   Commencing January 1, 2013, and each year thereafter, the Village
Administrator shall be and hereby is authorized to incorporate an annual rate
increase in an amount not to exceed 3% into Exhibit 5 entitled “Residential
Sewer Service Schedule No. 1" of Ord. 1198-98 for residential sewer service
customers located inside the village and an amount equal to two and one-half
times the inside village rate for nonresidential and commercial sewer service
customers located outside the village limits.
   (C)   The Village Administrator shall advise the Village Council prior to
December 1 of each year as the amount of rate increase, if any, that will be
place into effect on January 1 of the following year.
   (D)   Said attached rates, charges, general rules and regulations and
related matters shall, when placed into effect as provided herein, supersede
all existing rates, charges, by-laws, regulations and the like, related to the
matters covered by this section and thereafter all of the provisions set forth
in this section shall be in full effect.
   (E)   The Village Administrator shall place in effect the attached rates,
charges, rules and regulations and related matters at the earliest practical
date following the effective date of this section as provided by law, taking
into consideration the billing changes and other related matters involved, and
this section shall take effect and be in full force from and after the earliest
period allowed by law.
   (F)   Schedule No. 1.
   SCHEDULE NO. 1 “RSS”
   RESIDENTIAL SEWAGE SERVICE
Availability and Applicability:
      (1)   Sewage service is available only for individual residence,
apartments, mobile homes or other dwelling units where village’s sanitary sewer
lines are already installed immediately adjacent to consumer’s premises. New
sewage connections will not be made if village’s water is available to premises
and not utilized.
      (2)   The sewage rate is based upon water usage and the residential water
rate classification and definition shall likewise be applicable for sewage
service.
      (3)   The furnishing and utilization of sewage service, including system
extensions or enlargements and the financing of same, shall conform to
village’s application form and general rules and regulations of which are a
part of this schedule as if fully written herein.
New Rate per Month or Part Thereof per Service:
      (1)   Generally. The net billing shall be the sum of the charges (a), (b)
and (c) below. The village may elect to read meters monthly or bi-monthly. If
read bi-monthly, the service charge and rate blocks set forth below will be
multiplied by two.
         (a)   Monthly service charge.
 
                            Inside Corp. Outside Corp.
A Monthly Service Charge Of: $5.29        $13.23
 
         (b)   Commodity charge. A commodity charge computed as follows:
 
Quantity of Water Used per Month Inside Corp. Outside Corp.
First 4,000 Gallons              $2.65 per M  $6.61 per M
Next 4,000 Gallons               $2.38 per M  $5.96 per M
Over 8,000 Gallons               $1.59 per M  $3.97 per M
 
         (c)   Monthly system capacity charge. A monthly system capacity charge
as follows:
 
Capacity of Service Inside Corp. Outside Corp.
0.75 in. or less    $0.00        $0.00
1.0 in.             $2.65        $6.61
1.5 in.             $7.94        $19.84
 
      (2)   Capacity of service. The capacity of service shall be the nominal
inside diameter in inches of the water service line supplying consumer. Where
the service line is larger than one and one-half inches nominal diameter, the
nonresidential and commercial schedule shall apply.
Minimum Charge per Month or Part Thereof: The total billing per month or part
thereof shall thereafter be the sum of the foregoing charges but not less than
the following:
 
           Minimum Charge per Month Where Minimum Charge per Month for Non-
Meter Size Village Furnishes Water        Village Water Users
           Inside Corp. Outside Corp.     Inside Corp. Outside Corp.
0.75 in.   $5.29        $13.23            $15.87       $23.81
1.00 in.   $7.94        $19.84            $23.81       $59.51
1.50 in.   $13.23       $33.06            $26.45       $66.13
*Subject to increase as determined by village’s estimate of sewage
discharge
 
Billing for Multiple Dwelling Units:
      (1)   Where more than one dwelling unit (not to exceed four) is served
through a single meter, there shall be added to the regular billing under the
rates set forth herein an additional $5.29 per month inside the village and
$13.23 per month outside the village limits for each additional service where
sewer is discharged into the same sewage service line connection.
      (2)   The village reserves the right to require all future multiple
dwelling units or apartments to be individually metered and plumbed before
service is established.
Terms of Payment: The foregoing rates and charges are net and already reflect
the discount applicable from the gross rates if all accounts are paid on or
before the date specified on the bill. If all accounts are not so paid, the
gross rates and charges (which are 10% but not less than $1 higher than the
foregoing net rates and charges) shall apply.
Optional Special Metering for Sewage Billing Purposes:
      (1)   For water use that does not discharge into village’s sanitary sewer
system (lawn sprinkling, irrigation, air conditioning and the like), such water
will not be subject to village’s sewage charge providing the following
conditions have been complied with:
         (a)   That it can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Village
Administrator that it will be impossible for the water use in question to enter
into village’s sanitary sewer system. To meet this requirement, such water
shall be discharged into village’s storm sewer or into the ground or into the
street gutter or ditch. Furthermore, such water shall not be discharged into
any combination storm and sanitary sewer;
         (b)   1.   That the Administrator determines that such wastewater will
consist substantially of unpolluted or “clean wastewater”, free from
objectionable odor and will have no harmful or objectionable polluting affect
upon any stream, underground water supply or other body of water into which
such “clean wastewater” will ultimately be discharged - either directly or
indirectly.
            2.   The entire plumbing and meter installation shall meet the
village’s specifications and approval and shall be installed, owned and
maintained at property owner’s expense. The meter installation and location
shall be determined by the village.
            3.   Where the regular meter is an outdoor “frost-free” pit
installation, the “clean wastewater meter” shall be connected to the outlet
side of same;
            4.   Where the special meter supplies an underground lawn sprinkler
system, the piping system shall be provided with a suitable drain cock, so that
said sprinkler piping system can be drained in order to prevent freezing; and
            5.   For such special meter installations, the applicable regular
minimum charge shall apply for both water and sewage billing. There will be no
minimum charge for the special meter. In determining the water use for sewage
billing, the special meter water use shall be deducted from the regular meter
total use.
         (c)   The property owner may elect to connect the special “clean
wastewater” meter and separate plumbing system ahead of the regular meter. In
such an event, the water usage of each meter will be billed separately and only
the regular meter use shall be subject to the sewage charge. However, the
applicable minimum charge for water service shall apply to each water meter. In
addition, the applicable sewage charge shall apply to the regular meter.
      (2)   All meters shall be subject to village’s turn-off and turn-on
charge.
Billing and Meter Readings: Each metered water use shall be separately billed
and no meter readings shall be combined for billing purposes. The rates and
minimum charge shall be applied as written, with no proration for a fractional
billing period.
Deposit and Responsibility for Payment of Bills:
      (1)   For all service furnished within the corporate limits of the
village, the current property owner of record of the land involved is
responsible for all bills for sewage service - irrespective of who incurred
such unpaid bills or when such bills were incurred or who owned or occupied the
property at the time such bills were incurred. Said unpaid sewage service bills
shall be assessed as a tax lien against the property involved.
      (2)   Without relieving the property owner of his or her responsibility
for payment of all sewage bills for service furnished within the corporate
limits and in all cases where service is furnished outside the corporate
limits, the village reserves the right to require a suitable deposit to secure
payment of sewage bills. See the village’s general rules and regulations.
Failure to pay any sewage bill will cause water service to be turned off.
Sewage Service and Tap Charge: The initial establishment of sewage service is
subject to payment by the applicant, the village’s applicable sewer service and
tap charge.
Line Extensions: Where an extension or enlargement of the village’s sewer line
is required, the same shall be paid for by the consumer’s involved and in
accordance with the provisions set forth in the village’s line extension policy
and in the village’s general rules and regulations.
Other Conditions:
      (1)   Where sewage is discharged into the village’s sewer system and
water is obtained from a source other than from the village, the village
reserves the right to require property owner to install (at his or her own
expense) suitable, frost-free water or sewage metering equipment (to be
approved by the village) in order to determine the amount of sewage being
discharged into the village’s sewer system and to properly apply the foregoing
rates and charges. The property owner may also elect to install (at his or her
own expense) said metering equipment.
      (2)   Where consumer’s water supply is from a source from other than the
village and proper water or sewage metering equipment is not installed, the
village shall estimate the monthly sewage charge which shall be three times the
estimated sewage charge which would otherwise be made for residence to
comparable size and sewage discharge.
      (3)   Where sewage service is furnished outside the corporate limits of
municipality and it becomes necessary to renew or replace sewage treatment
faculties, including pumps and other appurtenances, the rates and charges set
forth herein are subject to increase to the extent necessary in order to pay
for such additional costs.
   (G)   Schedule No. 2.
   SCHEDULE NO. 2 “CSS”
   NONRESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE SERVICE
Availability and Applicability:
      (1)   This schedule is applicable for all service that is not strictly
residential in character. The rate to be charged for sewage service is based
upon water usage and/or the sewage discharged into village’s sanitary sewer
system. The village’s water rate classification and definition for
nonresidential and commercial service shall likewise be applicable for sewage
service.
      (2)   The furnishing and utilization of sewage service, including system
extensions or enlargements and the financing of same, shall conform to
village’s application form and its general rules and regulations of which are a
part of this schedule as if fully written herein.
New Rate per Month or Part Thereof per Service: The net billing shall be the
sum of the charges set forth under divisions (1), (2) and (3) below. The
village may elect to read meters monthly or bi-monthly. If bi-monthly, the
service charge and rate blocks will be multiplied by two.
      (1)   Monthly service charge.
 
                        Inside Corporation Limits Outside Corporation Limits
A Monthly Service Charge $5.29                     $13.23
Of:
 
      (2) Commodity charge. A commodity charge computed as follows:
 
Quantity of Water Used Per Inside Corporation Limits Outside Corporation Limits
Month
First 3,000 gallons        @ $5.29 per 1,000 gallon  @ $13.23 per 1,000 gallon
Next 7,000 gallons         @ $2.65 per 1,000 gallon  @ $6.61 per 1,000 gallon
Next 490,000 gallons       @ $1.59 per 1,000 gallon  @ $3.97 per 1,000 gallon
Over 500,000 gallons       @ $1.32 per 1,000 gallon  @ $3.31 per 1,000 gallon
 
      (3) Monthly system capacity charge. A monthly system capacity charge as
follows:
Capacity of Service Inside and Outside Corporation Limits
Capacity of Service Inside and Outside Corporation Limits
0.75 in. or less    $0.00
1.00 in.            $2.65
1.25 in.            $5.29
1.50 in.            $7.94
2.00 in.            $15.87
2.5 in.             $26.45
3.0 in.             $42.32
4.0 in.             $84.64
6.0 in.             $238.05
8.0 in.             $529
 
Capacity of Service:
      (1)   The capacity of service shall be determined by the village and
shall normally be equal to the nominal inside diameter in inches of the service
line installed by the property owner, extending from the tap on the village’s
main to consumer’s meter.
      (2)   Where the service line is larger than two inches nominal inside
diameter and is used to supply schools, churches, hospitals, bona fide
charitable institutions and tax supported public buildings located within the
corporate limits of village, the capacity charge shall be 50% of the otherwise
applicable charge set forth above, but not less than $26.45.
      (3)   The billing as determined above, shall be subject to the applicable
minimum charge. Where more than one establishment discharges sewage into the
same sewage service line connection, see “Billing for Multiple Establishments”.
      (4)   See elsewhere as to billing where the village does not furnish
water service and/or where water use is not discharged into village’s sanitary
sewer system; also where the sewage discharge has a deleterious effect on the
operation of the village’s treatment plant or sewer system.
Billing and Meter Readings: Each metered water use shall be separately billed
and no meter readings shall be combined for billing purposes. The rate and
minimum charges shall be applied as written, with no proration of the same for
a fractional billing period.
Billing for Multiple Establishments:
      (1)   The foregoing rates are based upon a single sanitary sewer service
line connection into which the sewage is discharged from not more than a single
establishment, business, activity or premises. Where more than a single
establishment, firm, business or activity discharges sewage into a single sewer
connection and/or is served through a single water meter, there shall be added
to the regular billing under the rates set forth herein, an additional charge
of $5.29 per month inside village limits and $13.23 per month outside village
limits for each such additional establishment, firm, business or activity whose
sewage is discharged into the same sewage service line connection.
      (2)   The village reserves the right to require that all future business
establishments or activities located on the same premises to have the water
service individually plumbed, metered and billed, before service is
established.
Minimum Charge per Month or Part Thereof:
      (1)   After service has been established, the total billing for each
month or part thereof shall thereafter be the sum of the foregoing charges but
not less than the following:
Size of Meter Inside Corp. Outside Corp.
Size of Meter Inside Corp. Outside Corp.
0.75 in.      $10.58       $26.45
1.00 in.      $13.23       $29.10
1.25 in.      $15.87       $31.74
1.50 in.      $18.52       $34.39
2.00 in.      $26.45       $42.32
2.5 in.       $42.32       $52.90
3.0 in.       $52.90       $68.77
4.0 in.       $95.22       $111.09
6.0 in.       $248.63      $264.50
8.0 in.       $529         $544.87
*As determined under capacity of service
 
      (2)   Where multiple establishments or businesses are served through one
sewer connection and/or one water meter, the applicable above minimum charge
shall be increased as provided under “Billing for Multiple Establishments”.
      (3)   For non-profit public activities such as county fairs, athletic
fields, swimming pools and the like, the minimum charge shall be applicable
during the months that service is turned on, but not less than three
consecutive months.
      (4)   The minimum charge shall apply every month that a bill is rendered
for water service and/or consumer’s building sewer is connected to the
village’s sewer system.
Terms of Payment: The foregoing rates and charges are a net and already reflect
the discount applicable from the gross rates if all accounts are paid on or
before the date specified on bill. If all accounts are not so paid, the gross
rates and charges, which are 10%, but not less than $1 higher than the
foregoing net rates and charges, shall apply.
Deposit and Responsibility for Payment of Bills:
      (1)   For all sewage service furnished within the corporate limits of the
village, the current property owner of record of the premises involved is,
under state law, responsible for all water and sewage bills - irrespective of
who incurred such unpaid bills or when such bills were incurred or who owned or
occupied the property at the time such bills were incurred. Such unpaid sewage
bills shall be assessed as a tax lien against the property involved.
      (2)   Without relieving the property owner of his or her responsibility
for payment of all sewage bills for service furnished within the corporate
limits and in all cases where service is furnished outside the corporate
limits, the village reserves the right to require a suitable deposit to secure
payment of sewage bills. Failure to pay the sewage bill shall cause water
service to be curtailed as specified in the village’s general rules and
regulations for sewage service.
Optional Special Metering for Sewage Billing Purposes:
      (1)   For water use that does not discharge into village’s sanitary sewer
system (lawn sprinkling, irrigation, air conditioning and the like) such water
will not be subject to village’s sewage charge providing the following
conditions have been complied with:
         (a)   It can be demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Village
Administrator that it will be impossible for the water use in question to enter
into village’s sanitary sewer system. To meet this requirement, such water
shall be discharged into village’s storm sewer or into the ground or into the
street gutter or ditch. Furthermore, such water shall not be discharged into
any combination storm and sanitary sewer;
         (b)   The Administrator determines that such wastewater will consist
substantially of unpolluted or “clean wastewater”, free from objectionable odor
and will have no harmful or objectionable odor and will have no harmful or
objectionable polluting affect upon any stream, underground water supply or the
body of water into which such “clean wastewater” will ultimately be discharged
- either directly or indirectly;
         (c)   1.   That the property owner shall separate his or her plumbing
so that the water input that is ultimately discharged as “clean wastewater”
will be separately metered.
            2.   The entire plumbing and meter installation shall meet the
village’s specifications and approval and shall be installed, owned and
maintained at the property owner’s expense. The meter installation and location
shall be determined by the village.
            3.   Where the regular meter is in outdoor “frost-free” pit
installations, the “clean wastewater meter” shall be installed immediately
adjacent to the regular meter and shall be connected to the outlet side of the
same.
            4.   Where special meter supplies an underground lawn sprinkler
system, the piping system shall be provided with a suitable drain cock, so that
said sprinkler piping system can be drained in order to prevent freezing.
            5.   For such special meter installations, the applicable regular
minimum charge shall apply for both water and sewage billing. There will be no
minimum charge for the special meter. In determining the water use for sewage
billing, the special meter water use shall be deducted from the regular meter
total use.
         (d)   Property owner may elect to connect the special “clean
wastewater” meter and separate plumbing system ahead of the regular meter. In
such an event, the water usage of each meter will be billed separately and only
the regular meter use shall be subject to the sewage charge. However, the
applicable minimum charge for water service shall apply to each water meter. In
addition, the applicable sewage charge shall apply to the regular meter.
      (2)   All meters shall be subject to village’s “turn-off’ and “turn-on”
charge.
Billing Where Water Is Not Supplied by Village: Where the consumer’s water
supply is from a source from other than the village and proper water or sewage
metering equipment is not installed, village shall estimate the monthly sewage
charge which shall be three times the estimated sewage charge which would
otherwise apply for said estimated sewage discharge to the village’s system.
Restrictions as to Discharge of Objectionable Waste into Village’s Sanitary
Sewer:
      (1)   Wastes discharged into the village’s sewer system that are
deleterious to the normal operation of the village’s sewage treatment plant are
prohibited. The Village Administrator shall determine by analysis and tests
whether or not wastes or rate of flow of same are deleterious or objectionable
to the operation of village’s system, based upon the kind of waste and its
volume, rate of flow and frequency of discharge into village’s system, plus
other factors.
      (2)   The wastes and/or other conditions that are subject to
determination by the Village Administrator as being objectionable shall be
those specified in the village’s general rules and regulations covering sewage
treatment service.
      (3)   At the village’s option, the village may, as provided in said
general rules and regulations, apply the specified surcharge to the rates set
forth herein, to compensate for the additional expense involved to treat such
objectionable sewage.
Other Provisions and Conditions
      (1)   The installation, operation and all other matters pertaining to
sewers shall be subject to all of the regulations, requirements and provisions
set forth in the village’s general rules and regulations pertaining to sewage
service and sewers, including any amendments or revisions thereof.
      (2)   Where sewage is discharged into the village’s sewer system and the
companion water supply is obtained from a source other than from the village,
the village reserves the right to require the property owner to install at his
or her own expense, suitable frost-free metering equipment to be approved by
the village, in order to determine the amount of sewage being discharged into
the village’s system and to apply the foregoing rates and charges accordingly.
      (3)   Where the village’s water service is available, the village
reserves the right to refuse to allow the discharge of sewage or waste into its
sanitary sewer system unless consumer obtains all of his or her water
requirements from the village.
      (4)   New sewage connections will not be made except to areas located
within the village corporate limits.
      (5)   Where existing sewage service is furnished outside the corporate
limits of municipality and it becomes necessary to renew or replace sewage
treatment facilities, including pumps and other appurtenances, the rates and
charges set forth herein are subject to increase to the extent necessary in
order to pay for such additional costs.
      (6)   For other conditions pertaining to service application, charges for
disconnection and reconnection of service, new extensions, responsibility for
bill payment and other conditions are set forth in village’s general rules and
regulations, available at village’s Utility Office, which are part of this
schedule the same as if fully written herein.
(Ord. 1447-12, passed 11-19-2012)
§ 52.46 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE EXPENSES.
   (A)   Commencing on May 1, 2009, all users of the village’s sewer system
shall pay a fee in the amount of $3.50 per month in order to ensure the proper
operation and maintenance of the village’s sewer system.
   (B)   Commencing on May 1, 2010, all users of the village’s sewer system
shall pay an additional fee in the amount of $3 per month, thereby increasing
each users monthly fee to $6.50, in order to ensure the proper operation and
maintenance of the village’s sewer system.
   (C)   Commencing on May 1, 2011, all users of the village’s sewer system
shall pay an additional fee in the amount of $3 per month, thereby increasing
each users monthly fee to $9.50, in order to ensure the proper operation and
maintenance of the village’s sewer system.
   (D)   The monthly fees created in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above shall be
paid by all users of the village’s sewer system in addition to any and all
other charges which they pay for usage of the village’s sewer system.
   (E)   The fees collected pursuant to this section shall be paid to the
village’s Sewer Fund.
(Ord. 1393-09, passed 3-16-2009)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation of §
52.02 beyond the time limit provided for shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $50 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of the §§
52.20 through
52.30 after written notice to cease and desist shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person or corporation found to be violating any provision of §§
52.20 through
52.30, except §
52.22(H) shall be served by the Administrator with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (3)   Any person or corporation who shall continue any violation provided
for in division (C)(2) above beyond the time limit provided for in division (C)
(2) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in an amount no less than $25 and not more than $100 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      (4)   Any person or corporation found to be violating §
52.22(H) shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
      (5)   Any person or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
52.20 through
52.30 shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned the village by reason of such violation.
      (6)   The village may also prevent or stop violations of §§
52.20 through
52.30 by injunction proceedings in the appropriate court.
      (7)   Applications may be cancelled and/or sewer service discontinued by
the municipality for any violation of any rule, regulation or condition of
service, and especially for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property or
fixtures to be serviced by the sanitary sewer system;
         (b)   Non-payment of bills; and
         (c)   Improper or imperfect service pipes and fixtures, or failure to
keep same in suitable state of repair.
(Ord. 747-76, passed 12-6-1976; Ord. 852-83, passed 2-7-1983)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   PARKING
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Weight restrictions placed on all noncommercial alleys
   
70.02   Engine braking
   
70.03   Shortcutting across private property
   
70.04   Physical control
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS PLACED ON ALL NONCOMMERCIAL ALLEYS.
   (A)   (1)   All vehicles and loads in excess of 12,000 pounds shall be
prohibited on all designated noncommercial alleys within the village.
      (2)   The WEIGHT of vehicles and/or loads shall mean the total
avoirdupois weight of the vehicle or the weight of the vehicle and load and
does not refer to the axle load or wheel load.
   (B)   Noncommercial alleys shall be those alleys designated as such by
legislation of the Council of the village.
(Ord. 1233-00, passed 8-21-2000) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 ENGINE BRAKING.
   No person shall apply an engine brake also known as a jake brake when
operating a motor vehicle upon a street or highway within the village that can
be heard outside the motor vehicle from 50 or more feet when the motor vehicle
is being operated any place within the village.
(Ord. 1152, passed 12-2-1996; Ord. 1166-97, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 1484-14,
passed 10-6-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon property for the sole
purpose of driving across said property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof.
   (B)   The failure to stop on such property in connection with or in
furtherance of the objects of enterprise or activities being conducted on the
property shall constitute prima facie evidence of violation.
(Ord. 1118-95, passed 8-7-1995) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PHYSICAL CONTROL.
   No person who is under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse or the
combined influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse shall be in physical control
of any motor vehicle. The provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, insofar as it provides
for tests to determine whether that person in physical control of a motor
vehicle is under the influence of alcohol and/or a drug of abuse, shall apply
to this section.
(Ord. 537, passed - -1960; Ord. 1215-99, passed 8-2-1999; Ord. 1217-99, passed
10-4-1999) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever is convicted of or is found guilty of a violation of §
70.01 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$100 for the first such offense; whoever is convicted of or is found guilty of
a second offense within one year after the first offense shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be imprisoned or jailed for not more
than 30 days and fined not more than $250; whoever is convicted of or is found
guilty of each subsequent offense after the first and second offense within one
year shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be
imprisoned or jailed not more than 60 days and shall be fined not more than
$500.
   (C)   The penalty for violation of §
70.02 shall be as follows:
      (1)   The first offense shall be considered a minor misdemeanor with a
fine not to exceed $100; and
      (2)   The second offense shall be considered a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree with a fine not to exceed $250 and a jail sentence not to exceed 30
days.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
70.03 is guilty if a minor misdemeanor on a first offense; on a second offense
within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree; on each subsequent offense within one year after the
first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates §
70.04 as a first offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 1118-95, passed 8-7-1995; Ord. 1166-97, passed 7-7-1997; Ord. 1215-99,
passed 8-2-1999; Ord. 1217-99, passed 10-4-1999; Ord. 1233-00, passed 8-21-
2000)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Golf Carts
   
71.01   Valid operator’s license required
   
71.02   Liability insurance
   
71.03   Proof of insurance
   
71.04   Equipment required
   
71.05   Speed limit
   
71.06   Inspection
   
71.07   Certificate of inspection
   
71.08   Operation
   
71.09   Subject to state law
   
71.10   Issuance of permits
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
71.25   Definitions
   
71.26   Operation on publicly owned or leased property prohibited
   
71.27   Operation on public thoroughfares prohibited
   
71.28   Operation on private property prohibited
   
71.29   Exceptions
Bicycles
   
71.40   Definitions
   
71.41   Parent’s responsibility
   
71.42   License required
   
71.43   License application for a bicycle
   
71.44   Issuance of license
   
71.45   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
71.46   Riding on bicycle
   
71.47   Prudent speed
   
71.48   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
71.49   Trick riding
   
71.50   Stolen bicycles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.01 VALID OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any driver of a golf cart on or across public streets, roadways, and/or
other public property shall have a valid operator’s license.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   If the golf cart is operated on or across the public streets, roadways and/
or other public property, the owner of the golf cart must carry liability
insurance comparable to that required for motor vehicles.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 71.03 PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   When driving a golf cart on or across public streets, roadways and/or other
public property, the operator of the golf cart must carry proof of insurance
while operating the golf cart.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 71.04 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   If the golf cart is to be driven on or across public streets, roadways and/
or public property, the golf cart must have the following equipment:
   (A)   Operational rear tail lights;
   (B)   Operational brake lights;
   (C)   Two operational headlights;
   (D)   Operational directional signals;
   (E)   Operational horn;
   (F)   A windshield;
   (G)   A functional rear view mirror;
   (H)   Adequate brakes and braking system;
   (I)   Two license plates, one placed upon the front of the vehicle, and one
placed upon the back of the vehicle, which must be displayed so that the
license plate can be read as intended;
   (J)   The rear license plate must be illuminated so as to make the license
plate visible and legible from a distance of at least 50 feet; and
   (K)   Operational seat belts.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 71.05 SPEED LIMIT.
   The golf cart shall not be driven or otherwise operated on any roadway where
the speed limit is greater than 35 mph. Any golf cart being driven on or across
public streets, roadways and/or public property pursuant to this subchapter
shall not be capable of being operated in excess of 20 mph within one mile on a
paved level surface, and shall have a gross vehicle weight rating of less than
3,000 pounds.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 71.06 INSPECTION.
   Prior to operating a golf cart on or across the public streets, roadways,
and/or other public property, the owner of the golf cart must present the golf
cart to the Police Department of the village for inspection. The Chief of
Police, or an officer designated by the Chief of Police, shall inspect the golf
cart to ensure its compliance with this subchapter. For the purpose of the
inspection, the Police Department shall utilize the golf cart under-speed
vehicle inspection sheet, a copy of which is attached to this section and
adopted by reference as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 71.07 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   After completing the inspection of the golf cart, the Police Department
shall provide to the owner of the golf cart that passes inspection, a
certificate of inspection regarding the inspection requirements that the owner
may present to the Clerk of Courts, along with other title evidence, in order
to obtain a certificate of title. The Police Department shall keep and maintain
a record of all golf carts inspected.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 71.08 OPERATION.
   The operator of a golf cart permitted to operate the same on the public
streets, roadways and/or other public property by this subchapter shall not
operate the same upon sidewalks or other private property located within the
village.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 71.09 SUBJECT TO STATE LAW.
   The operation of a golf cart permitted by this subchapter shall be subject
to all traffic and other laws set forth in the Ohio Revised Code, as amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 71.10 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall not prohibit the Village Council
from issuing permits from time to time for certain community or private events
authorizing the use of un-registered under-speed vehicles on streets that have
been closed or given a right-of-way for a limited period of time not to exceed
three days.
(Ord. 1553-18, passed 8-20-2018)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 71.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini bikes and trail bikes.
   OFF-ROAD MOTORCYCLES. Every motorcycle that is designed to be operated
primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation, other than lienholder or dealer,
having title to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or
other right to the possession thereof.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All land located within the corporation limits of the
village, that is not owned by the village, or dedicated to the public use.
   PUBLIC THOROUGHFARE. The entire width between the boundary lines of any
highway, road, street, avenue, alley, public place or public driveway within
the corporation limits, and subject to the jurisdiction of the village.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designated primarily for use on snow
or ice and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
(Ord. 1462-13, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 71.26 OPERATION ON PUBLICLY OWNED OR LEASED PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle upon any property publicly owned or leased by the village.
(Ord. 1462-13, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 OPERATION ON PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle upon or within any public thoroughfare within the village, except as
permitted in §
71.29.
(Ord. 1462-13, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.28 OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle on any private property within the village, except as permitted in §
71.29.
(Ord. 1462-13, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.29 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The operation of all-purpose vehicles with an attached snowplow shall
be permitted on public and private property within the village only for the
purpose of snow removal.
   (B)   In order to operate an all-purpose vehicle with a snowplow, the owner
or operator of said all-purpose vehicle shall be required to have:
      (1)   A valid vendor’s license from the office of the County Auditor; or
      (2)   Registered the use of said all-purpose vehicle with the Village
Police Department.
(Ord. 1462-13, passed 10-7-2013)
BICYCLES
§ 71.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Includes a device with two wheels in tandem propelled by human
power.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the village or any member of the
Police Department of said village.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973)
§ 71.41 PARENT’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The parent(s) of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not authorize
or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.42 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, who resides within this municipality, shall ride or propel
a bicycle upon any sidewalk, street, public way, unless such bicycle has been
licensed by the Chief of Police of this municipality and the license plate is
attached thereto as provided herein.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to any bicycle in transit within the
corporate limits of the municipality; providing that the owner is a resident of
another community.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.43 LICENSE APPLICATION FOR A BICYCLE.
   (A)   Application for registration or renewal of registration of a bicycle
shall be made to the Chief of Police upon an approved application form
furnished by the Chief of Police. The applicant shall state his or her name and
address, make, color, serial number, if any, and/or other identifying features
of the bicycle as well as any other pertinent information as may be required by
the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Upon receipt of completed application for registration of or renewal
of registration, and required fee, the Chief of Police shall issue a license or
renewal thereof, valid during the current license period and expiring on June
30, 1975. Renewal shall be applied for within 30 days prior to expiration date.
   (C)   All subsequent license periods under this section shall be two year
successive subsequent to the expiration date stated above, and all licenses
issued during any subsequent license period shall be valid only during the then
current two-year license period.
   (D)   The fee required under this section shall be $1. In the event the
application is filed within one year prior to the expiration date of the
current license period, the fee shall be $0.50.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973)
§ 71.44 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police upon receipt of the proper application accompanied
by the required fee, is authorized to issue a bicycle license which shall be
effective for a period not to exceed two years.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall not issue a license for any bicycle
when.....
   [missing material]
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973)
§ 71.45 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon the street or highway shall ride no more
than two abreast except in areas specifically designated for bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk or street, such
person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give an audible
signal before attempting to overtake and pass a pedestrian or another bicycle.
This audible signal must be given only by a bell or other warning device
capable of giving an audible signal and shall be given at such a distance and
in such a manner as not to startle person or persons being overtaken and
passed.
   (D)   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
before overtaking and passing a blind person carrying a white cane shall
dismount and overtake or pass on foot.
   (E)   When a bicycle is operated on the street, the operator shall give hand
signals before turning, changing lanes or stopping. Such signals shall conform
with the motor vehicle laws of the state.
   (F)   Every rider of a bicycle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding
with any pedestrian or any vehicle upon any roadway, sidewalk or bicycle path,
or endangering the life, limb or property of any person while in the lawful use
of the streets, sidewalks or any other private or public property.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.46 RIDING ON BICYCLE.
   (A)   A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than upon the
permanent and regular seat attached thereto; nor carry any other person upon
such bicycle other than firmly attached and regular seat thereon; nor shall any
other person ride upon a bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and
regular seat.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.47 PRUDENT SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
proper under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.48 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alley or
driveway yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on such sidewalk
area and upon entering the street shall yield the right-of way to all vehicles
approaching on such street.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.49 TRICK RIDING.
   No person shall engage in trick riding or operate/a bicycle in an unsafe
manner.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.50 STOLEN BICYCLES.
   No person shall steal any bicycle or purposely take, ride or operate any
bicycle without consent of the owner thereof or buy or conceal any bicycle that
has been stolen knowing it to have been stolen.
(Ord. 698, passed 5-7-1973) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle who violates §§
71.25 through
71.29 shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $100 for the first such offense; whoever is convicted of or is found
guilty of a second offense within one year after the first offense shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be imprisoned or jailed
for not more than 30 days and fined not more than $250; whoever is convicted of
or is found guilty of each subsequent offense after the first and second
offense within one year shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
and shall be imprisoned or jailed not more than 60 days and shall be fined not
more than $500.
(Ord. 1462-13, passed 10-7-2013)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Downtown area
   
72.02   Licensed vehicle
   
72.03   Parking tickets
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DOWNTOWN AREA.
   Other duties permitting, the Village Police Department shall maintain the
parking in the downtown area a minimum of three times per day by marking tires
or another appropriate method.
(Ord. 1549-18, passed 7-2-2018)
§ 72.02 LICENSED VEHICLE.
   No vehicle shall be parked on any village street without license plates or
with expired license plates or validation sticker.
(Ord. 1549-18, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 PARKING TICKETS.
   The village may issue parking tickets in lieu of removing vehicles parked in
violation of:
   (A)   Parking in a prohibited area when marked by signs indicating such area
or a yellow line;
   (B)   Vehicles parked in a designated handicapped parking space without
displaying an approved handicap vehicle decal or placard;
   (C)   Vehicles that are double parked;
   (D)   Vehicles that are parked in the wrong direction;
   (E)   Vehicles that are parked in alleys when not performing a commercial
delivery service;
   (F)   Vehicles that are parked across or blocking a crosswalk;
   (G)   Vehicles parked across or blocking a private driveway; and
   (H)   Vehicles parked on or across a sidewalk.
(Ord. 1549-18, passed 7-2-2018) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person receiving a parking ticket for parking an unlicensed
vehicle on a public street or a vehicle in a controlled parking space in
violation of §
72.02 shall be fined the sum of $25 per day. If the vehicle is not removed
within 72 hours, the vehicle shall be towed and stored by the village at the
owner’s expense. Fines shall be paid at the offices of the Village Police
Department or at the village offices.
      (2)   Violation of §
72.02 shall constitute a minor misdemeanor.
   (C)   (1) Any person receiving a parking ticket for the violation of §
72.03 shall be fined the sum of $25. Fines shall be paid at the offices of the
Village Police Department or at the village offices.
      (2)   Violation of §
72.03 shall constitute a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1549-18, passed 7-2-2018)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop and yield intersections
      
II.   Flashing signals
      
III.   Through traffic
      
IV.   Truck traffic
      
V.   Load restrictions
      
VI.   Speed limits
      
VII.   Turns
      
VIII.   One- and two-way alleys and streets
SCHEDULE I. STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop/yield intersections.
Street Intersection Stop Yield Ord. Date Passed
Street             Intersection         Stop         Yield Ord.    Date Passed
Centerfield Drive  At Greenbriar Avenue Stop sign    -     1383-08 9-9-2008
Cherry Street      At George Street     4-way        -     1066-93 4-5-1993
Countryside Drive  At Countryview Drive Stop sign    -     1380-08 7-21-2008
Flat Rock Drive    At Klingler Road and                    1095-94 10-17-1994
                   East Jackson Street
Greenbriar Avenue  At Countryview Drive Stop sign    -     1383-08 9-9-2008
Jefferson Street   And Main Street      4 stop signs -     1281-02 9-16-2002
Miles Street       At Water Street      -            -     1090-94 5-16-1994
North Main Street  At Miles Street      2-way        -     914-85  8-5-1985
North Water Street At Miles Street      -            Yield 914-85  8-5-1985
Springdale Drive   At Countryview Drive Stop sign    -     1380-08 7-21-2008
Wall Street        At Dix Street        3-way        -     1008-89 1-2-1990
Walnut Street      And Caroline Street  4 stop signs -     1260-02 3-4-2002
West Garfield      At Walnut Street     5-way              863-88  10-30-1983
Avenue
 
   (B)   Removal of stop signs. The stop signs on various streets at specific
intersections as listed below are hereby authorized to be removed:
      (1)   On Dix Street at Dix and Wall;
      (2)   On Garfield Street at Garfield and Cherry;
      (3)   On Wall Street at Wall and Walnut;
      (4)   On Garfield Street (ext.) at Garfield and Kay Nona; and
      (5)   On Garfield Street at Garfield and Hoover.
   (C)   Dooley Drive.
      (1)   Dooley Drive (formerly Township Road 144) at the intersection with
Emerald Road shall be designated as a stop street for traffic traveling in an
easterly direction, and the Council hereby designates the same and authorizes
stop signs to be erected at such intersection and point. In addition, the
Council authorizes and accepts at the intersection of Dooley Drive and State
Route 127 the traffic signal control devices for the purpose of traffic
control.
      (2)   The operator of any vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign
at an intersection or other place where a stop sign is erected and shall yield
the right-of-way to all other vehicles not so obligated to stop. A driver of a
vehicle proceeding on any street or other place designated in this section as a
stop street or stop intersection shall come to a full stop before proceeding to
cross the intersecting street or area designated in this section as the right-
of-way street, road or highway and in any case shall not proceed until it is
safe to do so.
      (3)   Any person violating this division (C) shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1057-92, passed 12-21-1992; Ord. 1079A-93, passed 9-7-1993)
SCHEDULE II. FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   The Village Administrator is authorized to proceed with the
installation of the four-way red flashing signal at the intersection of Cherry
and Perry Streets.
   (B)   The Village Administrator is authorized to employ the services of Ohio
Power to supply power to the installation and to provide a meter.
(Ord. 911-85, passed 5-20-1985)
SCHEDULE III. THROUGH TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Through traffic is prohibited in the east-west alley in the block
bordered by Wall Street, Water Street, Main Street and George Street to control
the volume of traffic thereon. Further that signs shall be erected at both ends
of said alley showing that through traffic on said alley is prohibited.
   (B)   The east-west alley located inside of the block contained within North
Coupland Street, West Perry Street, North Summit Street, and West Jackson
Street is closed to through traffic. The Village Administrator shall cause
signage and barriers to be placed and erect as he or she is required by
regulation and sees fit, in furtherance of this division (B).
   (C)   Paulding County Road 107 (McDonald Pike) from West Wayne Street south
to the village corporation limit is designated as a through highway by
definition.
   (D)   Emerald Road from Jackson Street to the north portion of Airport Road
is designated as a through street.
(Ord. 1263-02, passed 4-1-2002; Ord. 1424-11, passed 7-18-2011; Ord. 1599-20,
passed 12-7-2020; Ord. 1611-21, passed 3-15-2021)
SCHEDULE IV. TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided further in this division (A), no person shall
drive any truck or commercial tractor and semitrailer upon any of the following
village streets:
         (a)   North Drive between Kay-Nora Avenue and State Route 127;
         (b)   Kay-Nora Avenue between Co. Rd. 144 and Garfield Avenue
Extended;
         (c)   Walnut Street between North Drive and Garfield Avenue; and
         (d)   Cherry Street between North Drive and Garfield Avenue.
      (2)   Signs shall be clearly posted at the entrance points to the above
described village streets indicating that such traffic is prohibited.
      (3)   Such vehicles may be driven upon these streets or portions of these
streets, to load or unload merchandise, freight or material at a place
contiguous to the street or part thereof, provided there is no other means of
ingress to and egress from the place.
      (4)   Such vehicles may be driven across the above described streets or
parts thereof at an intersection.
      (5)   The provisions of division (A)(1) above does not apply to vehicles
owned or operated by the village, pick-up trucks or vans.
      (6)   Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to violating this division
(A) shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$100 for the first offense; and a second offense within one year after the
first offense, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and
shall be fined not more than $250; on each subsequent offense within one year
after the first offense, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree and shall be fined not more than $500.
   (B)   (1)   “Through Trucks Prohibited” or other appropriately worded signs
will be erected to prohibit through truck traffic in the north/south alley
lying between Williams and Cherry Streets and extending from Caroline Street
south to Jackson Street.
      (2)   Whoever is convicted of or is found guilty of a violation of this
division (B) shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $100 for the first such offense; whoever is convicted of or is found
guilty of a second offense within one year after the first offense shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be imprisoned or jailed
for not more than 30 days and fined not more than $250; whoever is convicted of
or is found guilty of each subsequent offense after the first and second
offense within one year shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
and shall be imprisoned or jailed not more than 60 days and shall be fined not
more than $500.
   (C)   (1)   Through truck traffic shall be prohibited upon West Baldwin
Avenue between North Williams Street and North Walnut Street within the
village.
      (2)   Whoever is convicted of or is found guilty of a violation of this
division (C) shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $100 for the first such offense; whoever is convicted of or is found
guilty of a second offense within one year after the first offense shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be imprisoned or jailed
for not more than 30 days and fined not more than $250; whoever is convicted of
or is found guilty of each subsequent offense after the first and second
offense within one year shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
and shall be imprisoned or jailed not more than 60 days and shall be fined not
more than $500.
   (D)   (1)   Through truck traffic shall be prohibited upon East Jackson
Street between Emerald Road and the intersection of East Jackson Street and
Flat Rock Drive within the village.
      (2)   Through truck traffic shall be prohibited upon Klingler Road
between East Wayne Street and East Jackson Street within the village.
      (3)   Through truck traffic shall be prohibited upon Flat Rock Drive from
East Jackson Street to the corporation limit within the village.
   (E)   (1)   Through truck traffic shall be prohibited upon South Main Street
between East Perry Street and East Wayne Street and shall be prohibited upon
East Wayne Street between South Williams Street and South Main Street within
the village.
      (2)   A violator this division (E) shall be deemed guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $150 for the first such offense;
whoever is convicted of or is found guilty of a second offense within one year
after the first offense shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree
and shall be imprisoned or jailed for not more than 30 days and fined not more
than $250; whoever is convicted of or is found guilty of each subsequent
offense after the first and second offense within one year shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be imprisoned or jailed not more than
60 days and shall be fined not more than $500.
(Ord. 972-88, passed 6-20-1988; Ord. 979-88, passed 9-19-1988; Ord. 1101-95,
passed 2-6-1995; Ord. 1374-08, passed - -2008; Ord. 1387-08, passed - -2008;
Ord. 1533-17, passed 3-20-2017)
SCHEDULE V. LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this schedule, no person shall drive any
vehicles weighing over three tons upon any of the following village streets:
      (a)   Countryside Drive;
      (b)   Centerfield Drive;
      (c)   Springdale Drive;
      (d)   Meadowbrook Drive; and
      (e)   Countryview Drive.
   (B)   Signs shall be posted reading “THROUGH VEHICLES OVER 3 TONS EMPTY
WEIGHT PROHIBITED”.
   (C)   Vehicles weight over three tons may be driven upon these streets or
portions of these streets for the shortest possible distance to load or unload
merchandise, freight or material at a place contiguous to the street or part
thereof, provided there is no other means of ingress to and egress from the
place.
   (D)   The provision of division (A) above does not apply to vehicles of a
gross weight less than three tons and vehicles owned or operated by the
village.
   (E)   Violation of this schedule shall constitute a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1082-93, passed 12-22-1993)
SCHEDULE VI. SPEED LIMITS.
 
Street             Area                Miles per Hour (mph) Ord.    Date Passed
                   All portions that
Airport Road/      are within the
Township Highway   village limits and  45 mph               1594-20 10-5-2020
162                to the east of
                   Emerald Road
                   From Jackson Street
Emerald Road       to the north right- 35 mph               1599-20 12-7-2020
                   of-way line of
                   Airport Road
Paulding County    From West Wayne
Road 107 (McDonald Street south to the 45mph                1424-11 7-18-2011
Pike)              village corporation
                   limit
Reservoir Drive                       15 mph               1265-02 5-20-2002
                   Both sides of the
St. Rt 127         highway from the    35 mph               1073-93 6-21-1993
                   north corporation
                   limits
 
SCHEDULE VII. TURNS.
 
Location                                                                      Restriction Ord.  Date
                                                                                                Passed
                                                                              No right
Gasser Road and North Williams Street intersection, for traffic traveling     turn on a   1546- 3-19-
east on Gasser Road to south on North Williams Street                         steady red  18    2018
                                                                              signal
North Williams Street; the southern entrance/exit of McDonald’s on the east Entrance    1361- 5-7-
side                                                                          only-no     07    2007
                                                                              exit
North Williams Street; exits of the Fuel King on the west side                Right turn  1542- 1-2-
                                                                              only        18    2018
North Williams Street; the northern exit of McDonald’s on the east side     Right turn  1541- 1-2-
                                                                              only        18    2018
North Williams Street; exit of the Rite Aid Pharmacy on the west side         Right turn  1543- 1-2-
                                                                              only        18    2018
                                                                              No right
Perry and Williams Streets intersection, while in the westbound lane of Perry turn at the 1589- 9-8-
Street                                                                        traffic     20    2020
                                                                              signal
 
SCHEDULE VIII. ONE- AND TWO-WAY ALLEYS AND STREETS.
Street Description Direction Ord. Date Passed
Street    Description                                              Direction Ord.  Date
                                                                                   Passed
                                                                   Direction
                                                                   of flow
                                                                   that
                                                                   would
                                                                   start at
          Bounded on the north side by Lots 159 and 160 of the     Water     1049- 4-20-
Alley     original plat of the village and on the south side by    Street    92    1992
          Lots 169 and 170 of the original plat                    and go in
                                                                   a
                                                                   westerly
                                                                   direction
                                                                   to Main
                                                                   Street
          Between Lots 140 and 139 (south side of alley) and Lots
Alley     133 and 134 (north side of alley) of the original plat   Two-way   1358- 4-16-
          of the village (said alley being between North Williams            07    2007
          Street and North Cherry Street)
          Between Lots 181 and 188 (west side of alley) and Lots             1486- 11-3-
Alley     182 and 187 (east side of alley) of the original plat of One-way   14    2014
          the village
Alley,
being     Immediately north of and adjacent to Lot 39 of Barnes’ One-way   824-  11-2-
16.5 feet Subdivision                                                        81    1981
in width
Alley,    Laying between Williams Street and Cherry Street, and
north-    extending from Harrison Street in a northerly direction  Two-way   1020- 5-7-
south     for one-half block to the intersection of the east-west            90    1990
          alley
East      Westbound between North Water Street and North Main                1485- 11-3-
George    Street                                                   One-way   14    2014
Street
East      Westbound between North Water Street and North Main                1510- 10-5-
Jefferson Street                                                   One-way   15    2015
Street
                                                                   One-way
Water     From Caroline Street to Wall Street                      street;   1262- 3-18-
Street                                                             northerly 02    2002
                                                                   direction
 
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking regulated
      
II.   Handicap parking
SCHEDULE I. PARKING REGULATED.
   (A)   Parking regulated.
Street Prohibition - Area Ord. Date Passed
Street      Prohibition - Area                                          Ord.  Date
                                                                              Passed
Baldwin     No parking on south side from Williams Street to Main       892-  8-6-
Avenue      Street                                                      84    1984
Baldwin     Prohibited parking on north side from Williams Street then  1119- 8-21-
Avenue      east for one-half of the block to the north/south alley     95    1995
Caroline    2 hour parking during school hours for parallel parking     953-  6-1-
Street      between Water Street and Lincoln Street                     87    1987
County View Prohibited parking on the north and south side at the       1331- 5-2-
Drive       intersection with Meadowbrook Drive                         05    2005
            Parking allowed on east side from Baldwin Avenue to Wall
Dix Street  Street, except for a portion described as starting at the   922-  12-16-
            north side of Wall Street and extending north a distance of 85    1985
            approximately 150 feet
Emerald     Prohibited parking from the north edge of the ballfields    1087- 5-2-
Road        south to the south side of the property at 748 Emerald      94    1994
            Road, which is located just south of the ballfields
Harrison    Prohibited parking on the south side from Walnut Street to  1002- 12-4-
Street      Cherry Street                                               89    1989
Jefferson   Parallel parking allowed on north side between Water Street 953-  6-1-
Street      and Main Street                                             87    1987
Jefferson   No parking except during church services on certain         1083- 2-22-
Street      portions of the south side between Main Street and Water    94    1994
            Street near the north entrance to the St. Joseph’s Church
Main Street No parking on west side from Baldwin Avenue to George       910-  5-6-
            Street                                                      85    1985
            2 hours Monday through Friday on the west side from         965-  1-4-
Main Street Jefferson Street in a direction south for one-half of a     87    1988
            block to the first alley
Meadowbrook Prohibited parking on the east and west side at the         1331- 5-2-
Drive       intersection with County View Drive                         05    2005
            Prohibited parking on the east side starting from the
Walnut      intersection of Walnut Street and Baldwin Avenue where      1021- 6-18-
Street      Baldwin Avenue intersects the east side of Walnut Street    90    1990
            and going in a northerly direction, to the east and west
            alley on the north side of Lot 6 of Cullen’s Addition
            Prohibited parking on the west side starting from the
            intersection of Baldwin Avenue and Walnut Street where
Walnut      Baldwin Avenue intersects the west side of Walnut Street    1021- 6-18-
Street      and going in a southerly direction, to a location           90    1990
            corresponding to the south side of Baldwin Avenue, as
            Baldwin Avenue intersects the east side of Walnut Street
Water       Parallel parking allowed on east and west side between      953-  6-1-
Street      George Street and Baldwin Avenue                            87    1987
Water       Parallel parking allowed on east and west side between      953-  6-1-
Street      Caroline Street to Jefferson Street                         87    1987
            1 hour parking during school hours for parallel parking be  953-  6-1-
Water       permitted on the east and west side between Jefferson       87;   1987;
Street      Street and George Street                                    1104- 4-3-
                                                                        95    1995
Water       Prohibited parking on the west side from Miles Avenue going 1012- 2-5-
Street      in a northerly direction to an alley                        90    1990
Wayne
Street      Parallel parking permitted on one side and prohibited       859-  6-6-
(State      parking on the opposite side                                83    1983
Route #111)
 
   (B)   Controlled parking areas.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   The village shall no longer maintain and use parking meters and
metered spaces.
         (b)   The downtown area of the village shall be limited to two hours
of continuous parking in one space from 7:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through
Saturday. The limitations as to the hours of parking shall not apply on Sundays
and holidays.
         (c)   The controlled parking area shall be defined as follows:
            1.   On the north and south sides of Perry Street from Main Street
in a direction west to Cherry Street;
            2.   On the east and west sides of Williams Street from Perry
Street in a direction south one-half block to the alley;
            3.   On the east and west sides of Williams Street from Perry
Street to Jackson Street;
            4.   On the east side of Williams Street from Jackson Street in a
direction north one-half block to the alley;
            5.   On the north and south sides of Jackson Street from Cherry
Street to Main Street; and
            6.   On the east and west sides of Main Street from Perry Street to
Jackson Street.
         (d)   It shall be unlawful, during the hours and times provided for
parking in the downtown area, to park and leave standing in any parking space,
a motor vehicle at or after the above described two-hour period of parking
limitation.
         (e)   Any person receiving a parking ticket for overtime parking shall
be fined the sum of $25 per day. If said fine is not paid within 72 hours from
the time that the ticket is issued, then the fine shall be increased to $40 and
the vehicle shall be towed and stored by the village at the owner’s expense.
Fines shall be paid at the offices of the Village Police Department or at the
village offices.
         (f)   Violation of division (B)(1)(e) above shall constitute a minor
misdemeanor.
      (2)   Parking on certain portions of Water Street and Harrison Street.
         (a)   Excepting on Sundays and holidays, parking shall be controlled
by limiting parking to two hours of continuous parking in one space from 7:00
a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
         (b)   The controlled parking areas shall be defined as follows: on the
east side of Water Street from Perry Street to Jackson Street.
         (c)   It shall be unlawful, during the hours and times provided for
parking in the controlled area, to park and leave standing in any parking
space, a motor vehicle at or after the above described two-hour period of
parking limitation.
         (d)   Any person who received a parking ticket for overtime parking
shall be fined the sum of $5. If said fine is not paid within 72 hours from the
time of issuance of the said parking ticket, the fine will be $20 rather than
$5 and the vehicle will be towed and stored by the village at the owner’s
expense. Fines shall be placed in the parking ticket envelope which envelope
shall be taken to the Police Department or to the village office for payment.
Any individual who is on jury duty or has been subpoenaed as a witness and
receives a parking ticket may have the parking ticket voided through the
appropriate court by presenting the ticket to the appropriate court and having
the ticket stamped and taken to the Police Department within one business day.
         (e)   Violation of division (B)(2)(d) above shall constitute a minor
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 995, passed 7-17-1989; Ord. 1133-96, passed 5-20-1996; Ord. 1549-18,
passed 7-2-2018)
SCHEDULE II. HANDICAP PARKING.
   (A)   Handicapped and surgical patient parking shall be at the following
downtown area locations:
Location Direction Space(s) Ord. Date Passed
Location              Direction  Space(s)                   Ord.    Date Passed
Caroline Street       South side The first parking space    1098-94 1-17-1995
                                 west of Williams Street
Caroline Street       North side A parking space just east  1161-97 5-5-1997
                                 of Cherry Street
                                 The first two parking
Cherry Street         West side  space south of West        1051-92 8-17-1992
                                 Jackson Street
Cherry Street         East side  A parking space just north 1161-97 5-5-1997
                                 of Caroline Street
                                 The first parking space
East Perry Street     North side located east of the south  1549-18 7-2-2018
                                 entrance to the courthouse
East Jackson Street   North side The first parking space    1549-18 7-2-2018
                                 west of North Main Street
                                 The first parking space
East Jackson Street   South side located west of the north  1549-18 7-2-2018
                                 entrance to the Courthouse
                                 The first two parking
Lincoln Street        East side  spaces south of East       1044-91 12-16-1991
                                 Jackson Street
                                 The first parking space
                                 located south of the alley
North Main Street     East side  between lots 160 and 169   1549-18 7-2-2018
                                 of the original plat of
                                 village
                                 The first parking space
North Main Street     West side  located at the east        1549-18 7-2-2018
                                 entrance to the Courthouse
                                 The first parking space
North Williams Street East side  located at the west        1549-18 7-2-2018
                                 entrance of the Courthouse
                                 The first parking space
North Water Street    East side  south of Jefferson Street  1062-93 2-16-1993
                                 in front of Paulding High
                                 School
Perry Street          South side The first parking space    1030-90 1-7-1991
                                 east of Williams Street
South Williams Street East side  The first parking space    1549-18 7-2-2018
                                 south of Perry Street
                                 The first parking space
                                 located south of the alley
South Main Street     West side  between Lots 187 and 198   1549-18 7-2-2018
                                 of the original plat of
                                 village
                                 The first parking space
South Cherry Street   East side  south of West Perry Street 1085-94 4-18-1994
                                 near the License Bureau
                                 The first parking space
West Perry Street     North side located west of Williams   1549-18 7-2-2018
                                 Street
                                 The first parking space
                                 east of the drive at the
West Perry Street     North side west end of Lot #175 of    1096-94 12-19-1994
                                 the original plat of the
                                 village
                                 The first parking space on
                                 the east end of Lot #176
West Perry Street     North side west 56 feet of the        1335-05 9-19-2005
                                 original plat of the
                                 village
Williams Street       East side  The first parking space    1385-08 9-9-2008
                                 south of Perry Street
 
   (B)   The above-described restricted parking spaces shall be appropriately
posted.
   (C)   A HANDICAPPED PERSON shall be defined for purposes of this schedule as
one who has lost the use of one or both legs, or of both arms, or any
combination thereof, or one who is blind, deaf, or so severely disabled as to
be unable to move about without the use of crutches or a wheelchair.
   (D)   Any person using or occupying a handicapped parking space within and
regulated by the village and who is not handicapped shall be fined $25.
(Ord. 1030-90, passed 1-7-1991; Ord. 1549-18, passed 7-2-2018)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NOXIOUS WEEDS AND LITTER
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   NUISANCES
      
94.   TREES
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   FAIR EMPLOYMENT, PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS AND FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES
      
98.   WATERCRAFT
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Keeping horses or ponies with the village
   
90.02   Restrictions on pit bull dogs
Prohibiting the Deposition of Animal Waste and Requiring the
Removal and Remediation of the Same
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Prohibited acts
Keeping of Farm Animals Within the Village
   
90.30   Definitions
   
90.31   Prohibited conduct
   
90.32   Exemption
   
90.33   Guidelines for permitting
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 KEEPING HORSES OR PONIES WITH THE VILLAGE.
   No person shall keep any horse or pony in any pen, yard, lot or other
enclosure situated within 100 feet of an inhabited dwelling house or business,
other than the house or business of the owner of such animal.
(Ord. 1192-98, passed 8-3-1998) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 RESTRICTIONS ON PIT BULL DOGS.
   No one shall keep or bring within the village limits, a pit bulldog (also
known as a “pit bull”) or any other dog with vicious propensities, either by
breed or by temperament, without at all reasonable times restraining said dog
with an adequate rope or chain and collar within a secure pen or other
enclosure. Muzzles shall be used by the keeper at all reasonable times as
necessitated for the public protection.
(Ord. 886-84, passed 4-16-1989) Penalty, see §
90.99
PROHIBITING THE DEPOSITION OF ANIMAL WASTE AND REQUIRING
THE REMOVAL AND REMEDIATION OF THE SAME
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any domestic animal, including, but not limited to, dogs and cats.
   OWNER. A person who harbors, keeps, controls or possesses an animal.
   PRIVATE LAND. Any and all property owned by residents or businesses in the
village, including store frontage and lawns.
   PUBLIC LAND. Any and all property owned by the village, including sidewalks,
rights-of-way and streets.
   WASTE. Urine or fecal matter derived from animals.
(Ord. 1595-20, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 90.16 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No owner of any animal shall permit such animal to deposit waste upon
public or private land in the village, other than that of the owner.
   (B)   Any owner observing or learning of his or her animal depositing waste
upon public or private land, other than that of the owner, shall immediately
remove such waste from such land and dispose of such waste in an enclosed
container. If the waste is liquid, the owner must rinse away said waste to the
point that it has been diluted and no trace of the waste can be detected by any
of the senses.
(Ord. 1595-20, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
90.99
KEEPING OF FARM ANIMALS WITHIN THE VILLAGE
§ 90.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal that is not endemic to the state, or one which is
not commonly kept as a domestic pet in the state.
   FAIR PROJECT. Any project undertaken by a person 18 years old or younger who
is actively involved in 4H or Future Farmers of America where the goal of the
project is to exhibit, show, sell, auction or other termination of the project
is accomplished at the Paulding County Fair.
   FARM ANIMAL. Any domestic species of animal that is kept and raised for use
as food or in the production of food or in the operation of a farm and is not a
house pet such as a dog, cat or similar animal. FARM ANIMALS include horses,
ponies, goats, pigs and cows, fowl as well as any animals listed in a
particular category of permitted animals with respect to impacts on nearby
properties, including noise, odors, safety hazards or other nuisances.
   HOME USE. Any purpose for keeping farm animals.
   STRICTLY PROHIBITED ANIMALS. Animals that are never permitted to be housed,
raised or otherwise kept in the village. They include, but are not limited to,
horses, male fowl and poultry over six months old, swine, peahens, peacocks,
guinea fowl, exotic animals other than fowl and poultry not otherwise
prohibited hereinabove, deer, antelope, bears, llama, alpaca, equine, bison,
nor any animal which weighs in excess of 200 pounds, unless said animal is an
otherwise authorized dog. No animals shall be kept for breeding and only
chickens may be kept for egg laying purposes.
(Ord. 1569-19, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 90.31 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No strictly prohibited animal shall be kept within the village. Prior to
housing, raising or keeping any farm animals within the village, the owner or
prospective owner shall make application for a permit with the Village Zoning
Inspector. The permit shall be applied for annually and shall follow guidelines
as set forth herein and in compliance with this subchapter, the zoning laws of
the village, and the laws of the state. The Zoning Inspector shall determine if
the proposed use is in compliance with these restrictions and any other
relevant factors, and shall issue an approval or denial of the permit
application.
(Ord. 1569-19, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.32 EXEMPTION.
   This subchapter shall not be applicable to the Paulding County Fairgrounds,
nor the property located at 226 Fairground Dr., Paulding, Ohio 45879, so long
as it continues to be held and transferred in its current undivided state.
(Ord. 1569-19, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 90.33 GUIDELINES FOR PERMITTING.
   The following are the 4H/FFA guidelines for permitting.
   (A)   No more than five turkeys, ducks or geese per household.
   (B)   No more than 30 chicks per household, nor more than 30 chickens for
purposes of meat production projects, no more than five chicks for all other
purposes.
   (C)   No more than 12 rabbits per household.
   (D)   No more than two sheep or goats per household, and no property may
host these animals for more than nine months in a calendar year, and those
months must be consecutive. Sheep and goats may only be kept when part of a
project for the Paulding County Fair.
(Ord. 1569-19, passed 10-7-2019) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
90.01 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (C)   It shall be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for anyone to violate
the provisions of §
90.02.
   (D)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
90.15 and
90.16 is guilty of minor misdemeanor.
   (E)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
90.30 through
90.33 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Every day in violation shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 886-84, passed 4-16-1989; Ord. 1192-98, passed 8-3-1998; Ord. 1569-19,
passed 10-7-2019; Ord. 1595-20, passed 10-5-2020)
CHAPTER 91: NOXIOUS WEEDS AND LITTER
Section
   
91.01   Noxious weeds
   
91.02   Litter
   
91.03   Abatement
   
91.04   Application
   
91.05   Inspection
   
91.06   Fee
   
91.07   Lien
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   It is hereby found and determined that noxious weeds that are spreading or
are about to spread mature seeds and noxious weeds and turf grasses that are
ten or more inches in height constitute a health hazard and public nuisance. No
owner, occupant or other person, having charge of any lot of land within the
village, shall permit conditions hereby declared to constitute a nuisance to
exist on such property. As used in this chapter NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include,
but are not limited to, the following: Buckthorn; Canada Thistle; Columbus
Grass; Corncockle; Cressleaf Groundsel; Curly Dock; Dodder; Field Bindweed;
French Weed; Hairy Whitetop (Ballcress); Hedge Bindweed; Heart-podded Hoary
Cress; Horsenettle; Johnsongrass; Leafy Spurge; Mile-A-Minute Weed; Musk
Thistle; Oxeye Daisy; Perennial Sowthistle; Poison Hemlock; Purple Loosestrife;
Quackgrass; Russian Knapweed; Russian Thistle; Serrated Tussock; Shatter Cane;
Wild Carrot; Wild Garlic; Wild Mustard; Wild Onion; Wild Parsnip; grapevines
growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned, sprayed or cultivated, or
otherwise maintained for two consecutive years; bushes of the species of tall,
common or European barberry, and any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees,
bushes, flowers, or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding ten
inches.
(Ord. 1399-09, passed 8-7-2009; Ord. 1425-11, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 1617-21,
passed 5-3-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 LITTER.
   (A)   Upon a finding by the Village Police Department that litter has been
placed on lands in the village, and has not been removed, and constitutes a
detriment to public health, the Village Police Department shall cause a written
notice to be served upon the owner and, if different, upon the lessee, agent or
tenant having charge of the littered land, notifying him or her that litter is
on the land, and that it must be collected and removed within five days after
the service of such notice.
   (B)   As used in this chapter, LITTER includes any garbage, waste, peelings
of vegetables or fruits, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons,
boxes, parts of automobiles, wagons, furniture, glass, oil of an unsightly or
unsanitary nature, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(Ord. 1399-09, passed 8-7-2009; Ord. 1425-11, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 1617-21,
passed 5-3-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ABATEMENT.
   The Village Administrator shall designate one or more person, entity or
village employees to abate conditions constituting a nuisance under the
standards established by §
91.01. Employees so designated are authorized to enter on any lot or parcel of
land on which conditions constituting such nuisance as defined by §
91.01 are observed to exist for the purpose of abating such nuisance. Written
notice describing the nuisance condition and requiring that it be abated by
proper mowing of the premises within five days shall be personally delivered by
the Village Police Department to the owner, occupant or other person having
charge of the premises if present. If no competent adult having charge of the
premises is present, the notice shall be conspicuously posted on the premises.
The notice shall be given in writing on forms prescribed by the Village
Administrator and shall describe the nuisance condition, the abatement action
required and the date by which the condition must be abated to avoid abatement
by the village.
(Ord. 1425-11, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 1617-21, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 91.04 APPLICATION.
   This chapter does not apply to land being used under a municipal building or
construction permit or license, a municipal permit or license, or a conditional
zoning permit or variance to operate a junk yard, scrap metal processing
facility or similar businesses, or a permit or license issued pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 37341, R.C. §§ 4737.05 to 4737.12 or R.C. Chapter 6111.
(Ord. 1425-11, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 1617-21, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 91.05 INSPECTION.
   The premises subject to a notice issued in accordance with §§
91.02 or
91.03 shall be inspected during customary business hours on the sixth, seventh
or eighth calendar day following the date on which the notice was delivered or
posted. If the premises are then found to constitute a nuisance under the
standards of §
91.01, the employee designated to abate the nuisance or village employees
working under the Village Administrator’s direction shall proceed to cut and/or
remove plants as necessary to bring the premises into compliance with the
standards of §
91.01.
(Ord. 1425-11, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 1617-21, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 91.06 FEE.
   In the event action is taken by the village in accordance with §
91.05 to abate a condition declared to be a nuisance or detriment to public
health in accordance with this chapter, the owner, occupant or other person or
business entity having charge of the premises shall be assessed a minimum fee
of $200 plus any actual costs incurred to repair equipment damaged in the
course of performance of the work. In addition, a record shall be kept of the
number of worker-hours required to abate the nuisance or detriment to public
health and in the event more than three quarters of one worker hour is
required, an additional charge shall be added to the minimum service fee hereby
established. The additional charge shall be computed at the rate of $200 per
worker hour for all time required in excess of one worker hour. For purposes of
this computation, time spent traveling to and from the premises shall be
included and the total time shall be calculated in half hour increments.
(Ord. 1425-11, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 1617-21, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 91.07 LIEN.
   Upon its removal of the litter or noxious weeds the village will submit a
statement to the owner, occupant or other person lessee, agent or tenant in
charge for the cost of said removal. In the event that the owner, occupant or
other person lessee, agent or tenant in charge fails to pay said statement
within ten days then the village will submit a written return to the County
Auditor in accordance with R.C. § 731.54 and the village’s cost for removal
shall become a lien upon such lands from the date of entry.
(Ord. 1425-11, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 1617-21, passed 5-3-2021)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of §
91.01 shall be punishable as a misdemeanor. If the charging citation alleges
and the court finds that the prosecution is based on the failure of the accused
to abate a nuisance or detriment to the public health within the time required
by a notice delivered or posted in conformity with §
91.02, violation of §§
91.01 or
91.02 shall be punishable as an unclassified misdemeanor and the court shall
order payment of restitution to the village in the amount of all service fees
the court determines to be due and owing in accordance with §
91.06 as part of any sentence imposed upon conviction, and the fine shall be no
less than $250 and no more than $500.
(Ord. 1425-11, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 1617-21, passed 5-3-2021)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Regulating and preventing the discarding of grass and/or grass
clippings into the public streets and highways
Sidewalks
   
92.15   Maintenance of existing sidewalks
   
92.16   Inspections
   
92.17   Intersection responsibility
   
92.18   Statement of repair; notice to owner
   
92.19   Repair by owner or contractor
   
92.20   Prohibition against removal of existing sidewalks
   
92.21   Sidewalk variance
   
92.22   Assessment of the installation of sidewalks
   
92.23   Inspection standards
   
92.24   Requirements for new walks
   
92.25   Sidewalk hazards and undesirable conditions
   
92.26   Construction standards for sidewalk construction and renovation
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 REGULATING AND PREVENTING THE DISCARDING OF GRASS AND/OR GRASS
CLIPPINGS INTO THE PUBLIC STREETS AND HIGHWAYS.
   No person, including, but not limited to, a person hired by the property
owner, shall, regardless of intent, throw, drop, discard, place of deposit
grass or grass clippings, or cause grass or grass clippings to be thrown,
discarded, placed or deposited, on any public property, specifically including
streets and highways, not owned by him or her, or in the waters of the village.
(Ord. 1482-14, passed 5-19-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.15 MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No owner of a lot or parcel of land situated within the corporate
limits of the village shall fail to maintain the existing sidewalk along a
street or alley adjacent to the owner’s lot or parcel allowing any of the
“Defined Sidewalk Hazards and Undesirable Conditions” on file at the village’s
Utilities Office.
   (B)   Said hazards may be deleted all or in part, amended or added to as the
Council may see fit by a motion of approval by the majority of Council.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Upon a complaint setting forth the location of a defective sidewalk,
the name of the complainant, and any other necessary information, the Village
Administrator shall schedule an inspection of that sidewalk.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Administrator shall establish a routine inspection
of sidewalks for which the village has the duty to maintain.
      (2)   A regularized inspection of the condition of sidewalks throughout
the village shall be accomplished on a cycle established by the Village
Administrator and approved by the Council, and inspection and repair shall be
accomplished according to. the program schedule established.
   (C)   Standards and specifications.
      (1)   All new construction, grading, repairing or replacing of such
sidewalks shall comply with ODOT requirements.
      (2)   The office of the Village Administrator shall have copies of the
specifications.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989)
§ 92.17 INTERSECTION RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The village shall be responsible for the maintenance and repair of
sidewalks in intersections.
   (B)   This does not obligate the village to the responsibility of snow
removal on these sidewalks.
   (C)   It will still be the property owners responsibility to maintain
adequate snow removal and to control icy conditions when present.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989)
§ 92.18 STATEMENT OF REPAIR; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When the Village Administrator, upon any such inspection, determines
that it is necessary to construct, grade, repair or replace any sidewalk within
the village in accordance with standards and specifications prescribed and on
file in the office of the Village Administrator, he or she shall prepare a
statement showing the location of the sidewalk, the nature of the construction,
repairs or replacement necessary, and shall serve such statement and notice
personally or by mail to the owner of the property.
   (B)   In the event that the owner cannot be notified by personal service or
by mail, the notice shall be served by publishing such notice on two separate
occasions on two separate consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village.
   (C)   This notice shall fix a time within which such construction, repairs
or replacement must be completed.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989)
§ 92.19 REPAIR BY OWNER OR CONTRACTOR.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation except an employee of the village
or person, firm or corporation having a contract with the village for relaying,
replacing or repairing sidewalks shall install, replace, relay or repair any
sidewalk within a public street or grounds in the village unless or until a
permit therefor has been issued in writing by the Village Administrator or his
or her duly authorized representative.
      (2)   The Village Administrator shall prepare an appropriate application
and permit form.
      (3)   A permitee must perform any work under the permit according to the
specifications on file with the Village Administrator.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation except an employee of the village or
person, firm, or corporation having a contract with the village for the removal
of sidewalks shall remove a sidewalk unless a permit, approved by the Village
Council and the Village Administrator has been issued in writing by the Village
Administrator or his or her duly authorized representative.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 1282-02, passed 10-21-2002) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.20 PROHIBITION AGAINST REMOVAL OF EXISTING SIDEWALKS.
   No person may remove existing sidewalks without replacing the sidewalks with
new sidewalks in conformity with this subchapter.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 SIDEWALK VARIANCE.
   (A)   Request for sidewalk variance. If an owner of a lot or parcel of land
in the village is repairing or replacing an existing sidewalk or is installing
a new sidewalk, he or she may petition in writing to the Village Council for a
variance to the requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Conditions for granting of variances.
      (1)   Special conditions and circumstances must exist which are peculiar
to the proposed replacing or installation of sidewalks; and/or
      (2)   The special conditions and circumstances are not created solely by
the applicant.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989)
§ 92.22 ASSESSMENT OF THE INSTALLATION OF SIDEWALKS.
   At its option, the village may utilize the provisions contained in sections
of R.C. Chapters 727 or 729 to repair any sidewalks in violation of any
sections of the village’s codified ordinances.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989)
§ 92.23 INSPECTION STANDARDS.
   The Village Administrator is directed to have on file and available to the
public at all times construction standards for sidewalk construction and
renovation.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989)
§ 92.24 REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW WALKS.
   (A)   The Village Administrator is directed to recommend to Council
procedures to develop a needs assessment for the construction of sidewalks in
certain areas of the village where none exist.
   (B)   The purpose of this program will be to eliminate hazards to the safety
of pedestrians and to provide access for pedestrians to schools, churches,
businesses, recreation areas and the like.
   (C)   The needs assessment shall identify those specific areas where
sidewalks may be needed and shall recommend procedures for establishing
required criteria, conducting a survey to determine such areas which need new
walks based on criteria, and recommend an order of priorities.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989)
§ 92.25 SIDEWALK HAZARDS AND UNDESIRABLE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Stub toes. The vertical misalignment along any part of the seam
between two slabs, or between sections within a slab fractured by cracks, one
inch in elevation or greater;
   (B)   Traverse (lateral) slope. Any individual slab or portion of a slab
that slopes either toward the paved portion of the street or the adjoining
property at a ratio of more than one inch per horizontal foot;
   (C)   Longitudinal slope. Other than handicapped ramps, each individual
slab, or fragmented sections of a slab, that deviates from the average line of
the sidewalk surface level at a ratio of more than one inch per lineal foot;
   (D)   Gaps. A space between slabs and the depth of the gap between slabs in
excess of one inch in width and depth; those caused by the absence of a
fragmented section of the sidewalk exceeding one inch in width and depth;
   (E)   Surface quality.
      (1)   Cracked slabs. Slabs fragmented by cracks into four or more
sections, where any one of the gaps between fragments is greater than one inch
in width and depth.
      (2)   Pitted slabs. Slabs whose surface is granular and contains
hazardous depressions of surface break-up in excess of one inch in depth. Depth
is to be determined by a two-foot straight edge laid on the surface of the
sidewalk.
   (F)   Surface irregularity. Any surface irregularity in the sidewalk that
allows impounding of water for more than one square foot in area;
   (G)   Brick walks. Brick walks are acceptable provided that the surface
plane or contour meets the requirements of divisions (A) through (F) above and
where the surface dirt and grass has been removed; and
   (H)   Asphaltic concrete. Asphaltic concrete is not an acceptable sidewalk
material. For those that have one existing at the time this subchapter was
adopted, it will be allowed to remain in place provided the surface plane or
contour meets the requirements of divisions (A) through (F) above. If portions
of existing asphaltic concrete need to be replaced, the replacement will be
into portland cement.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989)
§ 92.26 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND RENOVATION.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8602dcc8d3f9ef64184a5361d477927761e225c1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-939.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8602dcc8d3f9ef64184a5361d477927761e225c1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-941.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8602dcc8d3f9ef64184a5361d477927761e225c1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-943.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8602dcc8d3f9ef64184a5361d477927761e225c1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-945.png]
 
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
92.01 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be issued a written warning
for a first offense, and shall be fined $25 for a second offense, an amount not
to exceed $50 for a third offense, and an amount not to exceed $100 for a
fourth and all subsequent offenses. Each successive day that §
92.01 is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who installs, replaces, relays, repairs or removes any
sidewalks within a public street or public grounds in the village or causes the
same to be performed without obtaining a permit, as provided in §
92.19, shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not to exceed $100.
(Ord. 991-89, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 1282-02, passed 10-21-2002; Ord. 1482-14,
passed 5-19-2014)
CHAPTER 93: NUISANCES
Section
Regulating the Transportation of Certain Nuisances
Through the Village
   
93.01   Regulations established
   
93.02   Definitions
Sound Amplification Systems
   
93.15   Use of loud sound amplification systems
Deposit, Storage, Maintenance or
Collection of Junk or Junk Motor Vehicles
   
93.30   Definitions
   
93.31   Prohibition
   
93.32   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
REGULATING THE TRANSPORTATION OF CERTAIN NUISANCES
THROUGH THE VILLAGE
§ 93.01 REGULATIONS ESTABLISHED.
   The Council hereby establishes the following regulations for vehicles
traveling through the village:
   (A)   Vehicles traveling through the village shall not contain improperly
secured loads such that the contents of these vehicles leaks, falls from, blows
off of or otherwise leaves the vehicle at any point.
   (B)   Any and all hatches shall be fully and completely closed on the tanks
of tanker trucks.
   (C)   All trailers must be clean and not expose wet or dry manure, waste or
other noxious materials that can in any way leave the vehicle or trailer and
settle on any streets, highways, vehicles, sidewalks, persons or any other
property located within the village.
   (D)   The vehicle and trailer must emit no odor.
(Ord. 1563-19, passed 6-17-2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise specified herein, all terms used in this subchapter shall
have the meanings assigned to them in the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 1563-19, passed 6-17-2019)
SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS
§ 93.15 USE OF LOUD SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No operator or passenger of a motor vehicle shall operate, or permit
the operation of any sound amplification system which can be heard outside the
vehicle from 50 or more feet when the vehicle is being operated upon a street
or highway.
   (B)   SOUND AMPLIFICATION SYSTEM shall include any radio, tape player,
compact disc player, loud speaker or other electronic device used for the
amplification or the human voice, music or any other noise or sound.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section, that the
operator was not otherwise prohibited by law from operating the sound
amplification system, and that any of the following apply:
      (1)   The system was being operated to request medical or vehicular
assistance or to warn of a hazardous road condition;
      (2)   The vehicle was an emergency or public safety vehicle;
      (3)   The vehicle was owned and operated by the village or a gas,
electric, communications, refuse or water utility company; and
      (4)   The vehicle was being used in a parade.
(Ord. 1027-90, passed 1-7-1991) Penalty, see §
93.99
DEPOSIT, STORAGE, MAINTENANCE OR COLLECTION OF JUNK OR
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 93.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Any old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, trash, waste, batteries,
paper, rubber, junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles or parts thereof,
iron, steel and other old or scrap ferrous or nonferrous materials.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is in a wrecked or worn-out
condition and unfit for operation as a motor vehicle, except a collector’s
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 with current Ohio license plates, or a
historical vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 with current Ohio license
plates.
   NOTICE. A letter, in a form approved by Council, stating the manner in which
this subchapter is being violated, the description and/or location of the
premises, the name of the owner(s) and tenants (if any) of said premises and
the period of time within which said premises shall be cleared from the
violation of this subchapter. Such letter shall be signed by the Mayor of the
village.
   OWNER. The person, firm or corporation in whose name said premises are
listed in the deed records in the County Recorder’s office.
   UNLICENSED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT. Includes any motor vehicle,
apparatus or equipment which is not in operating condition or which has no
value except for salvage or junk purposes, or which has not been issued a
license with a distinctive number and registration mark valid for the current
year. STORING, PARKING OR OTHERWISE KEEPING means storing, parking, standing or
otherwise keeping one or more vehicles, equipment or other objects in any place
other than in an enclosed garage or accessory building for a period in excess
of two weeks.
(Ord. 841-82, passed 9-20-1982)
§ 93.31 PROHIBITION.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall deposit, store, maintain, collect or
permit the storage, deposit, maintenance or collection of any junk or junk
cars, or unlicensed, inoperable vehicles and equipment on his or her own
premises or any premises it or they own or use under his, her or their control,
or in any other place within the municipality, village street, alley right-of-
way, or otherwise, except as expressly provided by law.
(Ord. 841-82, passed 9-20-1982) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.32 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation whose inoperable motor vehicle or junk
motor vehicle which is found to be stored, parked or otherwise present in or on
a street, roadway, alley right-of-way, roadside parking or in a street or
roadway right-of-way within the village is subject to immediate towing of the
offending vehicle at the owner’s expense, in addition to the other penalties
described herein.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any other provision of this
subchapter shall, within three days after notification of said violation by the
Mayor, village law enforcement or any other duly authorized representative of
the village, remove or cause to be removed, any junk or junk cars or have the
same placed in an enclosed garage or accessory building, and in the event of
failure to do so, he, she or they shall be deemed to be in violation of the
provision of this subchapter.
(Ord. 841-82, passed 9-20-1982; Ord. 1604-20, passed 1-4-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone violating §
93.01 shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   First offense: $100 fine;
      (2)   Second offense: $250 fine;
      (3)   Third offense: $500 fine; and
      (4)   Each subsequent offense: $500 fine.
   (C)   The penalty for violating §
93.15 shall be as follows:
      (1)   First offense shall be considered a minor misdemeanor with the fine
not to exceed $100; and
      (2)   Second offense shall be considered a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree with the fine not to exceed $250 and jail sentence not to exceed 30
days.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
93.30 through
93.32 shall be fined not less than $125 nor more than $150. For a second
violation, after having been previously been found to be in violation of §§
93.30 through
93.32, whoever violates any provision of §§
93.30 through
93.32 shall be fined a minimum of $150, and a maximum of $250.
      (2)   If the violation cited in division (D)(1) above continues unabated,
each successive day in violation shall accrue a $25 fine per day until the
person, firm or corporation rectifies the condition forming the basis for said
violation. Any such violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 841-82, passed 9-20-1982; Ord. 1027-90, passed 1-7-1991; Ord. 1436-12,
passed 6-4-2012; Ord. 1563-19, passed 6-17-2019; Ord. 1604-20, passed 1-4-2021)
CHAPTER 94: TREES
Section
   
94.01   Definition
   
94.02   Vegetative growth
   
94.03   Completion of form
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, TREE LAWN shall have the same meaning as
it does in §
155.02(L) of the village’s zoning code, as codified in Chapter 155 of this code
of ordinances.
(Ord. 1600-20, passed 12-7-2020)
§ 94.02 VEGETATIVE GROWTH.
   Property owners are hereby required to control the vegetative growth on the
tree lawns at their property addresses.
(Ord. 1600-20, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 COMPLETION OF FORM.
   Prior to removing trees from the tree lawn, property owners shall complete
the appropriate form describing the proposed removal, and return the same to
the village offices and obtain approval of said form.
(Ord. 1600-20, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be a minor misdemeanor and shall be
punishable pursuant to the provisions for such a level of misdemeanor as is set
forth under R.C. § 2929.28, and as an additional penalty, the violator shall be
required to pay or reimburse the village for the cost of replanting a suitable
tree.
(Ord. 1600-20, passed 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
95.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
§ 95.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   That a certain document, a copy of which is on file in the office of the
Village Administrator, and also one copy of which is on file in the office of
the Village Fire Chief, being marked and designated as the 1987 BOCA National
Fire Prevention Code as published by Building Officials and Code Administrators
and International Incorporated, is hereby adopted as the Fire Prevention Code
of the village, for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided,
and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the 1987 BOCA National Fire Prevention Code are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part thereof, as if fully set out in this chapter.
(Ord. 1015-90, passed 4-2-1990)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Regulating Park Uses
   
96.01   Designation
   
96.02   Prohibitions
Regulating Conduct at Village Parks
   
96.15   Regulations
   
96.16   Smoking
   
96.17   Alcohol
   
96.18   Pets
   
96.19   Permits
Regulating Conduct in Reservoir Park
   
96.30   Conduct
Regulating Conduct in LaFountain Park
   
96.45   Conduct
 
   
96.99   Penalty
REGULATING PARK USES
§ 96.01 DESIGNATION.
   Those areas of the village which have been designated by the Recreation
Board and/or the Village Council as being for recreational or park purposes
shall be defined as PARKS. Further, any of the village’s codified ordinances,
regulations or rules shall mean such foregoing areas.
(Ord. 1000-90, passed 3-19-1990)
§ 96.02 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The following are prohibited by any person in the parks as heretofore
defined:
      (1)   Placing, throwing, scattering or distributing refuse, garbage,
junk, debris, paper or other rubbish;
      (2)   Distributing any and all commercial circulars, cards and handbills,
whether written or printed;
      (3)   Mutilating, defacing, destroying, removing, breaking or tearing any
structure, wall, fence, railing, vehicle, plant, shrub, tree, sign or other
property;
      (4)   Injuring, destroying, harassing, chasing or harming wild or
domestic animals, fowl or fish, with the exception of legal hunting or fishing
which may be permitted under park rules;
      (5)   Interfering, harassing or annoying other users of the park and
recreational facilities by unlawful words or deeds which create the probability
of a breach of peace;
      (6)   Starting and/or using ground fires except at fireplaces so
provided;
      (7)   Smoking in prohibited areas as designated by the Recreation Board.
      (8)   Indulging in any indecent or disorderly conduct, or in any lewd or
lascivious behavior in any park; and
      (9)   Hanging or allowing to swing any hammock or swing upon trees,
posts, fences or other park property not specifically constructed for swing
purposes.
   (B)   The following are prohibited in the parks:
      (1)   Driving of vehicles over grass and/or areas not designated as
vehicle areas or roadways;
      (2)   Operation of commercial vehicles whose presence and nature in the
park is intended by the owner or operator to be for business purposes;
      (3)   Permitting personal property to remain in or upon park property
such as to create an obstruction or nuisance to the free use and enjoyment of
the park;
      (4)   Permitting or allowing a dog to be loose and/or without a leash;
and
      (5)   Participating in any game of chance which is in violation of the
laws of the state.
   (C)   The following are prohibited by any person in the parks except by
written permit authorized by the Recreation Director or the Village
Administrator:
      (1)   Placing and/or posting signs, bills and bulletins;
      (2)   Permitting entry into by animals over which person has custody,
other than a dog or cat;
      (3)   Displaying, firing, exploding or shooting pyrotechnical displays,
firearms or fireworks;
      (4)   Shooting an arrow into a park or using a bow and arrow in a park
except in areas designated by the Recreation Director for the use of bows and
arrows or other firearms, weapons, and tools;
      (5)   Carrying on or about one’s person firearms of any description, bows
and arrows, air or gas guns, missiles, sling shots or other missile throwing
devices without authorization from the Recreation Director; and
      (6)   Camping of any sort.
   (D)   All parks shall be closed from 11:00 p.m. to dawn except for
individuals holding a permit in designated areas from the Recreation Director
or Village Administrator. Persons claiming to hold permits for use shall
produce same upon the request of the police, park employees, Councilperson,
city officials, or Recreation Board members; and permits are limited to the
uses specified herein.
(Ord. 1000-90, passed 3-19-1990) Penalty, see §
96.99
REGULATING CONDUCT AT VILLAGE PARKS
§ 96.15 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All village parks shall be and hereby are designated to be smoke-free
and alcohol-free facilities for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (B)   Lela McGuire Jeffery Park shall be and hereby is designated a smoke-
free, alcohol-free and pet-free facility for the protection of the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 1598-20, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.16 SMOKING.
   (A)   Smoking shall not be permitted in any village park.
   (B)   SMOKE or SMOKING means the carrying or holding of a lighted pipe,
cigar or cigarette of any kind, or any other smoking material, equipment or
device, and the lighting, emitting or exhaling the smoke of a pipe, cigar or
cigarette of any kind.
   (C)   The use of electronic cigarettes shall not be permitted in any village
park.
   (D)   ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE means an electronic device that delivers vapor
which is inhaled by an individual user, and shall include any refill, cartridge
and any other component of such a device. VAPE means to use an electronic
cigarette.
   (E)   The use of marijuana, medical marijuana or Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)
shall not be permitted in any village park.
   (F)   MARIJUANA and MEDICAL MARIJUANA shall have the same definitions as
established in R.C. § 3793.01. Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) is a chemical
composition and shall have its scientific meaning.
(Ord. 1598-20, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.17 ALCOHOL.
   The consumption of alcohol shall not be permitted in any village park,
except Herb Monroe Memorial Park, and only then with a permit previously
obtained from the village.
(Ord. 1598-20, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.18 PETS.
   (A)   No person shall permit any pet, whether with or without a leash, to be
in Lela McGuire Jeffery Park.
   (B)   A PET is hereby defined to be any animal kept for pleasure rather than
utility.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any guide dog, signal dog, service dog or other animal individually
trained to provide assistance to an individual with a disability;
      (2)   Dogs used by or under the authority of police or law enforcement
agencies for law enforcement purposes; or
      (3)   Pets that are part of a special event or an exhibit at a special
event held in Lela McGuire Jeffery Park.
(Ord. 1598-20, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.19 PERMITS.
   Any usage of the parks for any type of organized events or organized
competitions must first obtain a permit from the village and comply with all
requirements therefore, including the procurement of the required insurance
coverage.
(Ord. 1598-20, passed 12-7-2020) Penalty, see §
96.99
REGULATING CONDUCT IN RESERVOIR PARK
§ 96.30 CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or keeper of any animal, shall permit said
animal to enter upon that portion of the park property occupied by the
reservoir and the dike surrounding said reservoir. There being no EPA
regulations forbidding animals on areas occupied by the reservoir and dike
surrounding said reservoir, hunting dogs shall be permitted to enter said area
with their owner for retrieval of birds during hunting season only. Owners are
to obtain written permission at village office each year at the time they
obtain their hunting permit for village property. Owners are to be completely
responsible for proper handling of dogs.
   (B)   No person shall displace or remove the riprap from the interior bank
of the reservoir.
   (C)   No person shall throw rocks or any other foreign material into the
reservoir.
   (D)   No person shall operate a vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 mph
within the reservoir park.
   (E)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon any portion of the
reservoir dike.
   (F)   No person shall camp in the reservoir park, without first obtaining a
camping permit from the village police.
   (G)   No person, other than those holding valid overnight camping permits,
shall be permitted in the Reservoir Park, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m.
   (H)   No persons other than those holding shelter house use permits shall be
permitted to use a shelter house when such use has been reserved and posted to
be used by a specific person or group for specific date and duration of time.
   (I)   No public swimming shall be permitted in the reservoir.
(Ord. 744-76, passed 8-2-1976; Ord. 782-79, passed 12-3-1979; Ord. 990-89,
passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 1197-98, passed 11-16-1998) Penalty, see §
96.99
REGULATING CONDUCT IN LAFOUNTAIN PARK
§ 96.45 CONDUCT.
   No person shall be in the LaFountain Park between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m. without a valid permit issued by the Village Police Department or
the village utility office.
(Ord. 1134-96, passed 6-3-1996) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The violation of any of the rules and regulations set forth in §
96.02 shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and the violator shall, upon conviction,
be fined not more than $150 or be imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or
both.
   (C)   Whoever is convicted of or is found guilty of a violation of §§
96.15 through
96.19 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$150 for the first such offense; whoever is convicted of or is found guilty of
a second offense within one year after the first offense shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be imprisoned or jailed for not more
than 30 days and fined not more than $250; whoever is convicted of or is found
guilty of each subsequent offense after the first and second offense within one
year shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be
imprisoned or jailed not more than 60 days and shall be fined not more than
$500.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
96.30 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $100.
   (E)   Whoever violates §
96.45 shall be fined not less than $50 nor more than $500.
(Ord. 744-76, passed 8-2-1976; Ord. 990-89, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 1000-90,
passed 3-19-1990; Ord. 1197-98, passed 11-16-1998; Ord. 1598-20, passed 12-7-
2020)
CHAPTER 97: FAIR EMPLOYMENT, PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS AND
FAIR HOUSING PRACTICES
Section
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Unlawful discriminatory practices
   
97.03   Human Rights Board
   
97.04   Procedures and enforcement
   
97.05   Scope of chapter
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BURIAL LOT. Any lot for the burial of deceased persons within any public
burial ground or cemetery, including, but not limited to, cemeteries owned and
operated by municipal corporations, townships or companies or associations
incorporated for cemetery purposes.
   COMMISSION. The Village of Paulding Human Relations Commission.
   DISCRIMINATE. Includes segregate or separate.
   EMPLOYEE. Does not include any individual employed in the domestic service
of any person.
   EMPLOYER. Includes the state, or any political or civil subdivision thereof,
any person employing four or more persons within the state, and any person
acting in the interest of an employer, directly or indirectly.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. Includes any person regularly undertaking with or without
compensation to procure opportunities to work or to procure, recruit, refer or
place employees.
   HANDICAP. A medically diagnosable, abnormal condition which is expected to
continue for a considerable length of time, whether correctable or
uncorrectable by good medical practice, which can reasonably be expected to
limit the person’s functional ability, including, but not limited to seeing,
hearing, thinking, ambulating, climbing, descending, lifting, grasping,
sitting, rising, any related function or any limitation due to weakness and
significantly decreased endurance, so that he or she can not perform his or her
everyday routine living and working without significantly increased hardship
and vulnerability to what are considered the everyday obstacles and hazards
encountered by the non- handicapped.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS.
      (1)   Includes any building or structure or portion thereof which is used
or occupied or is intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as the
home residence or sleeping place of one or more individuals, groups or families
whether or not living independently of each other; and any vacant land offered
for sale or leased for commercial housing.
      (2)   It also includes any housing accommodations held or offered for
sale or rent by a real estate broker, salesperson or agent, or by any other
person pursuant to authorization of the owner, by the owner himself or herself,
or by his or her legal representative.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. Includes any organization which exists for the purpose,
in whole or in part, of collective bargaining or of dealing with employers
concerning grievances, terms or conditions of employment, or for other mutual
aid or protection in relation to employment.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, partnerships, associations,
organizations, corporations, legal representatives, trustees, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and other organized groups of persons. It also includes,
but is not limited to, any owner, lessor, assignor, builder, manager, broker,
salesperson, agent employee, lending institution; and the state, and all
political subdivisions, authorities, agencies, boards and commissions thereof.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Any inn, restaurant, eating house, barber
shop, public conveyance by air, land or water, theater, store or other place
for the sale of merchandise, or any other place where the accommodation,
advantages, facilities or privileges thereof are available to the public.
   RESTRICTIVE COVENANT. Any specification limiting the transfer, rental, lease
or other use of any housing because of race, color, religion, national origin,
ancestry or handicap, or any limitation based upon affiliation with or approval
by any person, directly or indirectly, employing race, color, religion,
national origin, or ancestry, or handicap as a condition of affiliation or
approval.
   UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE. Any act prohibited by §
97.02.
(Ord. 866-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 97.02 UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice:
   (A)   Employment. For any employer, because of the race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, handicap or ancestry of any person, to refuse to hire or
otherwise to discriminate against that person with respect to hire, tenure,
terms, conditions or privileges of employment, or any matter directly or
indirectly related to employment;
   (B)   Employment agencies. For an employment agency, because of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, handicap or ancestry to:
      (1)   Refuse or fail to accept, register, classify property or refer for
employment, or otherwise discriminate against any person; or
      (2)   Comply with a request from an employer for referral of applicants
for employment if the request indicates, directly or indirectly, that the
employer fails to comply with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Labor organizations. For any labor organization to:
      (1)   Limit or classify its membership on the basis of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, handicap or ancestry; or
      (2)   Discriminate against, limit the employment opportunities of, or
otherwise adversely affect the employment status, wages, hours or employment
condition of any person as an employee because of race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, handicap or ancestry.
   (D)   Apprenticeship training programs. For any employer, labor organization
or joint labor-management committee controlling apprentice training programs to
discriminate against any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, handicap or ancestry in admission to, or employment in, any program
established to provide apprentice training;
   (E)   Employer, employment agency or labor organization actions. Except
where based on a bona fide occupational qualification certified in advance by
the commission, for any employer, employment agency or labor organization,
prior to employment or admission to membership, to:
      (1)   Inquiries. Elicit or attempt to elicit any information concerning
the race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap or ancestry of an
applicant for employment or membership;
      (2)   Records. Make or keep a record of the race, color, religion, sex,
national origin, handicap or ancestry of any applicant for employment or
membership;
      (3)   Applications and membership blanks. Use any form of application for
employment, or personnel or membership blank seeing to elicit information
regarding race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap or ancestry;
but an employer holding a contract containing a nondiscrimination clause with
the government of the United States, or any department or agency thereof, may
require an employee or applicant for employment to furnish documentary proof of
United States citizenship and may retain such proof in the employer’s personnel
records and may use photographic or fingerprint identification for security
purposes;
      (4)   Notices and advertisements. Print or publish or cause to be printed
or published any notice or advertisement relating to employment or membership
indicating any preference, limitation, specification or discrimination, based
upon race, color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap or ancestry;
      (5)   Discriminatory policies. Announce or follow a policy of denying, or
limiting, through a quota system or otherwise, employment or membership
opportunities of any group because of the race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, handicap or ancestry of such group; and
      (6)   Discriminatory sources. Utilize in the recruitment or hiring of
persons any employment agency, placement service, training school or center,
labor organization or any other employee-referring source known to discriminate
against persons because of their race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
handicap or ancestry.
   (F)   Advertising by job seekers. For any person seeking employment to
publish or cause to be published any advertisement which specifies or in any
manner indicates that person’s race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
handicap or ancestry, or expresses a limitation or preference as to the race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap, or ancestry of any prospective
employer;
   (G)   Public accommodations. For any proprietor or any employee, keeper or
manager of a place of public accommodation to deny to any person, except for
reasons applicable alike to all persons regardless of race, color, religion,
sex, national origin, handicap or ancestry, the full enjoyment of the
accommodations, advantages, facilities or privileges thereof;
   (H)   Refusing and withholding of housing accommodation. For any person to:
      (1)   Refusal. Refuse to sell, transfer, assign, rent, lease, sublease,
finance or otherwise deny or withhold housing accommodations from any person
because of the race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, handicap or national
origin of any prospective owner, occupant or user of such housing;
      (2)   Misrepresentation of availability. Represent to any person that
housing is not available for inspection when in fact it is so available;
      (3)   Refusal to finance. Refuse to lend money, whether or not secured by
mortgage or otherwise, for the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation,
repair or maintenance of housing or otherwise withhold financing of housing
from any person because of the race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, handicap
or national origin of any present or prospective owner, occupant or user of
such housing, provided such person, whether an individual, corporation or
association of any type, lends money as one of the principal aspects or
incident to his or her principal business and not only as a part of the
purchase price of an owner-occupied residence he or she is selling nor merely
casually or occasionally to a relative or friend;
      (4)   Discrimination in supplying housing accommodations. Discriminate
against any person in the terms or conditions of selling, transferring,
assigning, renting, leasing or subleasing any housing or in furnishing
facilities, services or privileges in connection with the ownership, occupancy
or use of any housing because of the race, color, religion, sex, ancestry,
handicap or national origin of any present or prospective owner, occupant or
user of such housing;
      (5)   Discrimination in financing. Discriminate against any person in the
terms or conditions of any loan of money, whether or not secured by mortgage or
otherwise, for the acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or
maintenance of housing because of race, color, religion, sex, ancestry,
handicap or national origin of any present or prospective owner, occupant or
user of such housing;
      (6)   Combined income. Refuse to consider without prejudice the combined
income of both husband and wife for the purpose of extending mortgage credit to
a married couple or either member thereof;
      (7)   Statements and advertisements. Print, publish or circulate any
statement or advertisement relating to the sale, transfer, assignment, rental,
lease, sublease or acquisition of any housing or the loan of money, whether or
not secured by mortgage or otherwise, for the acquisition, construction,
rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of housing which indicates any
preference, limitation, specification or discrimination based upon race, color,
religion, sex, ancestry, handicap or national origin;
      (8)   Inquiries, applications and records. Make any inquiry, elicit any
information, make or keep any record, or use any form of application containing
questions or entries concerning race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, handicap
or national origin in connection with the sale or lease of any housing or the
loan of any money, whether or not secured by mortgage or otherwise, for the
acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of housing;
      (9)   Restrictive covenants. Include in any transfer, rental or lease of
housing any restrictive covenant, or honor or exercise, or attempt to honor or
exercise, any restrictive covenant, provided that the prior inclusion of a
restrictive covenant in the chain of title shall not be deemed a violation of
this provision;
      (10)   Inducing or soliciting. Induce or solicit or attempt to induce or
solicit a housing listing, sale or transaction by representing that a change
has occurred or may occur with respect to the racial, religious, sexual or
ethnic composition of the block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is
located, or induce or solicit or attempt to induce or solicit such sale or
listing by representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of
any race, color, religion, sex, ancestry, handicap or national origin, in the
area will or may have results such as the following:
         (a)   The lowering of property values;
         (b)   A change in the racial, religious, sexual or ethnic composition
of the block, neighborhood, or area in which the property is located;
         (c)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; and
         (d)   A decline in the quality of the schools serving the area.
      (11)   Denial of services or membership. Deny any person access to or
membership or participation in any multiple-listing service, real estate
brokers’ organization or other service, organization, or facility relating to
the business of selling or renting housing accommodations, or to discriminate
against any person in the terms or conditions of such access, membership or
participation, on account of race, color, religion, sex, national origin,
handicap or ancestry;
      (12)   Coercing, intimidation, threatening or interfering. Coerce,
intimidate, threaten or interfere with any person in the exercise or enjoyment
of, or on account of that person’s having exercised or enjoyed or having aided
or encouraged any other person in the exercise or enjoyment of, any right
granted or protected by this division (H);
      (13)   Willful injury, intimidation and interference. Whether or not
acting under color of law, by force, or threat of force willfully injure,
intimidate or interfere with, or attempt to injure, intimidate or interfere
with:
         (a)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, national
origin, handicap or ancestry and because that person is or has been selling,
purchasing, renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the
sale, purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling, or applying
for
or participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting housing accommodations;
         (b)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from:
            1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race,
color, religion, sex, national origin, handicap or ancestry, in any of the
activities, services, organizations or facilities described in division (H)(13)
(a) above; and
            2.   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
         (c)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, national origin, handicap or ancestry, in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in division (H)(13)(a) above,
or participating lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of
the opportunity to so participate.
      (14)   Discouraging prospective purchasers. No person shall discourage or
attempt to discourage the purchase by a prospective purchaser of a housing
unit, by representing that any block, neighborhood or area has undergone or
might undergo a change with respect to the religious, racial, sexual or ethnic
composition of. the block, neighborhood or area; or
      (15)   Deny or withhold burial lot. Refuse to sell, transfer, assign,
rent, lease, sublease, finance or otherwise deny or withhold a burial lot from
any person because of the race, color, sex, ancestry, handicap or national
origin of any prospective owner or user of such lot.
   (I)   Retaliation. For any person to discriminate in any manner against any
other person because that person has opposed any unlawful practice defined in
this section, or because that person has made a charge, testified, assisted or
participated in any manner in any investigation, proceeding or hearing;
   (J)   Aiding, abetting and coercing. For any person to aid, abet, incite,
compel or coerce the doing of any act declared by this section to be an
unlawful discriminatory practice or to obstruct or prevent any person from
complying with this section, or any order issued thereunder, or to attempt
directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by this section to be an
unlawful discriminatory practice;
   (K)   Allowable preferences. Nothing in division (H) above shall bar any
religious or denominational institution or organization, or any charitable or
educational organization that is operated, supervised or controlled by or in
connection with a religious organization, or any bona fide private or fraternal
organization from giving preference to persons of the same religion or
denomination, or to members of such private or fraternal organization, or from
making such selection as is calculated by such organization to promote the
religious principles or the aims, purposes or fraternal principles for which it
is established or maintained;
   (L)   Employing the handicapped. Nothing in divisions (A) to (E) above shall
be construed to require a handicapped person to be employed or trained under
circumstances that would significantly increase the occupational hazards
affecting either the handicapped person, other employees, the general public or
the facilities in which the work is to be performed, or to employ or train a
handicapped person in a job that requires him or her routinely to undertake any
task, the performance of which is substantially and inherently impaired by his
or her handicap; and
   (M)   Selling or renting to the handicapped. Nothing in division (H) above
shall be construed to require any person selling or renting property to modify
such property in any way or to exercise a higher degree of care for a person
having a handicap, nor shall it be construed to relieve any handicapped person
of any obligation generally imposed on all persons regardless of handicap in a
written lease, rental agreement or contract of purchase or sale, or to forbid
distinctions based on the inability to fulfill the terms and conditions
including financial obligations, of the lease, agreement or contract.
(Ord. 866-83, passed 9-19-1983) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 HUMAN RIGHTS BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Human Rights Board to consist of three
members who shall be qualified electors of the village and shall not hold any
elected public office at the municipal, county, state or federal level at any
time while a member of the Board and shall not be employed by the village, but
may be employed by the county, state or federal government. Any duly appointed
Board member who is a candidate for any public office shall be automatically
disqualified from further membership on the Board. The day the Board member
files petitions with the County Board of Elections shall be the date of the
disqualification. Nothing shall prohibit the Board from consulting and meeting
with real estate agents or representatives of lending institutions in matters
regarding educational or other programs to further the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board member shall be appointed by the Mayor and approved by the
Village Council. Of the members first appointed, one shall hold office for a
term of one year; one for a term of two years; and the other for a term of
three years; and their successors may be appointed for terms of three years.
The Mayor shall fill all vacancies by appointment for the remainder of the
unexpired term. The Mayor shall be an ex officio member of the Board. After
being duly constituted, a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall be chosen by
majority vote of the Board.
   (C)   The Secretary of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor and may be
an employee of the village.
   (D)   The Mayor may recommend the removal of any member of the Board for
neglect of duty or malfeasance in office to the Village Council. The Council
may remove a member of the Board from office by an affirmative vote of at least
three quarters of the Council only after having first given to such member a
written copy of the charges against him or her and an opportunity to be
publicly heard in person or by Council in his or her own defense; and any such
removal shall be final.
   (E)   Two members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of
conducting the business thereof. A vacancy on the Board shall not impair the
right of the other members to exercise all the power of the Board.
   (F)   Each member of the Board shall serve without salary, but shall be paid
necessary and actual expenses expended in performing the business of the Board.
   (G)   The Board is charged with the following duties to implement the stated
policy of this chapter:
      (1)   To investigate all complaints of unlawful housing or employment
practices which are filed with it;
      (2)   To initiate complaints of unlawful housing or employment practices
on the basis of studies carried out by its staff or volunteers authorized by
the Board;
      (3)   To endeavor by conciliation, to resolve such complaints;
      (4)   To hold hearings, subpoena witnesses, compel their attendance,
administer oaths, take the testimony of any person under oath, and in
connection therewith, to require the production of examination of any books or
papers relating to any matter under investigation or in question before the
Board;
      (5)   To recommend to the Mayor, when it deems necessary, educational and
other programs designed to promote the purpose stated in this chapter; and
      (6)   To do such other acts that are necessary and proper in order to
perform those duties with which it is charged under the terms of this chapter.
   (H)   The Mayor shall be responsible for the administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 866-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 97.04 PROCEDURES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person subjected to an unlawful housing practice may file within
360 days of the alleged violation with the Board a complaint in writing, sworn
to or affirmed, which shall state: the name and address of the person
aggrieved; the name and address of the person against whom the complaint is
filed; a description and the address of the dwelling, which involves the
alleged discriminatory housing practice or employment practice; a concise
statement of the facts, including pertinent dates, constituting the alleged
discriminatory housing or employment practice, and such other information as
may be required by the Board. The complaint may be reasonably and fairly
amended. The Board may also corroborate or initiate complaints on the basis of
studies carried out by its staff or volunteers authorized by the Board.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the complaint, the Secretary of the Board shall
make such investigations as he or she deems appropriate to ascertain facts and
issues. Said investigation shall be conducted within 14 business days after the
filing of the complaint. The investigation may be extended when deemed
necessary by the Chairperson of the Human Rights Board. If the Secretary shall
determine that there are reasonable grounds to believe a violation has
occurred, he or she shall attempt to conciliate the matter by methods of
initial conference and persuasion with all interested parties and such
representatives as the parties may choose to assist them. Conciliation
conferences shall be informal and nothing said or done during such initial
conferences shall be made public by any member of the Board or its staff unless
the parties agree thereto in writing.
   (C)   The terms of conciliation agreed to by the parties shall be reduced to
writing and incorporated into a consent agreement to be signed by the parties,
which agreement is for conciliation purposes and does not constitute an
admission by any parties that the law has been violated. Consent agreement
shall be signed on behalf of the Board by its Chairperson.
   (D)   The Board is authorized to seek the cooperation and aid of the state’s
Real Estate Commission, state’s Civil Rights Commission, or the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development and any other person or group
regarding any matters before the Board.
   (E)   If the Secretary determines that the complaint lacks reasonable
grounds upon which to base a violation of this chapter, he or she shall so
inform the Board and the Board may in its discretion dismiss such complaint or
order such further investigation as may be necessary; provided, that the Board
shall not dismiss such complaint without first affording either party an
opportunity to appear before the Board.
   (F)   If the Secretary with respect to a matter which involves a violation
of this chapter, fails to conciliate a complaint after the parties have in good
faith attempted such conciliation, fails to effect an informal conciliation
agreement or an informal consent agreement or determine that a complaint is not
susceptible of conciliation, he or she shall so notify the Board and the Board
shall thereafter schedule a public hearing to determine whether a violation of
this chapter has been committed. The Board shall serve upon the respondent a
written statement of charges and a summons and shall serve upon all interested
parties a notice of the time and place of the hearing. The respondent or his or
her authorized counsel may file and amend such statements with the Board prior
to the hearing date as it deems necessary in support of its position. The
hearing shall be open to the public. The hearing shall be held not less than 15
calendar days nor more than 30 calendar days after service of the service of
the statement of charges and summons. The summons so issued must be signed by
two members of the Board and the issuance of such summons shall require the
attendance of named persons and the production of relevant documents and
records. The failure to comply with a summons shall constitute a violation of
this chapter. The interested parties may, at their option, appear before the
Board in person or by a duly authorized representative and may have the
assistance of an attorney. The parties may present testimony in evidence and
the right to cross-examine witnesses shall be preserved. All testimony in
evidence shall be given under oath or by affirmation. The Secretary shall keep
a full record of the hearing, which records shall be public and open to
inspection by any person, and upon request by any principal party to the
proceeding, the Board shall furnish such party a copy of the hearing record, at
such cost as the Board deems appropriate.
   (G)   If, at the conclusion of the hearing the Board shall determine upon
the preponderance of the evidence that the person complained against has
violated this chapter, the Board shall, after consultation with the village
legal counsel, in executive session, state its finding to and call the legal
counsel to prepare and issue an order under Board directive requiring the
person complained against to cease and desist from such unlawful conduct and to
take such affirmative action as will effectuate the purpose of this chapter,
with notice that if the Board, upon investigation by the Secretary, determines
that the person complained against has not after 15 calendar days following
service of the Board’s order complied with the order, the Board will recertify
the matter to the legal counsel for enforcement. The village legal counsel
shall seek compliance by appropriate civil action brought in the name of the
Human Rights Board of the village, before a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (H)   If at the conclusion of the hearing the Board shall determine upon the
preponderance of the evidence of the record that the person complained against
has not violated this chapter, the Board shall so state and publish its
findings and issue its order dismissing the complaint.
(Ord. 866-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 97.05 SCOPE OF CHAPTER.
   The provision of this chapter shall apply to all employment, public
accommodations and housing located within the territorial limits of the
village.
(Ord. 866-83, passed 9-19-1983)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   In any proceeding, where the court determines that there has been a
violation of this chapter, the court shall award compensatory damages, and,
where appropriate, punitive damages of not more than $1,000 along with attorney
fees and court costs.
(Ord. 866-83, passed 9-19-1983)
CHAPTER 98: WATERCRAFT
Section
   
98.01   Prohibition of operation of unlicensed watercraft
   
98.02   Licensing
   
98.03   Use of engine fueled by gasoline or any other petroleum products
prohibited
   
98.04   Restrictions on operation of watercraft
   
98.05   Disposition of revenue
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PROHIBITION OF OPERATION OF UNLICENSED WATERCRAFT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place an unlicensed watercraft upon
the waters of the Paulding Reservoir.
(Ord. 707, passed 3-4-1974) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.02 LICENSING.
   (A)   (1)   A license to place a watercraft upon the Paulding Reservoir
shall be issued to the owner of a rowboat or sailboat less than 16 feet in
length or a canoe, upon:
         (a)   Completion of an application in a form prescribed by the Mayor
of the village;
         (b)   Presentation of satisfactory evidence of ownership of the
watercraft and registration with the state; and
         (c)   Payment of a licensing fee of $2.
      (2)   Application for licensing shall be made at the village’s Utilities
Office.
   (B)   The license obtained as prescribed herein shall be valid as long as
the applicant owns the boat for which said license is obtained.
(Ord. 707, passed 3-4-1974)
§ 98.03 USE OF ENGINE FUELED BY GASOLINE OR ANY OTHER PETROLEUM PRODUCTS
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use an engine fueled by gasoline or
any other petroleum product upon the Paulding Reservoir. Electric motors shall
be the only permissible means of mechanical motivation of watercraft upon the
Paulding Reservoir.
(Ord. 707, passed 3-4-1974) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.04 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION OF WATERCRAFT.
   Operation of licensed watercraft upon the Paulding Reservoir shall be
subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   Watercraft shall be launched at designated areas only;
   (B)   Boating shall be permitted only during hours that Paulding Reservoir
Park is open to the public;
   (C)   Watercraft shall remain out of restricted areas, designated as such;
   (D)   No watercraft shall remain on the Paulding Reservoir overnight;
   (E)   No firearms shall be permitted in watercraft with the exception of
water fowl hunting;
   (F)   No swimming shall be permitted;
   (G)   Occupants of watercraft shall not place foreign matter in water; and
   (H)   There shall be a life preserver in every watercraft for each occupant.
(Ord. 707, passed 3-4-1974; Ord. 938-86, passed 12-15-1986) Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.05 DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.
   All revenue generated by the operation of this chapter shall be placed in
the village’s Park Fund.
(Ord. 707, passed 3-4-1974)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone who violates any provision in this chapter shall be fined not
less than $5 nor more than $100 and/or shall have his or her license suspended
for from 30 days to a permanent revocation.
   (B)   The owner of any watercraft shall be responsible for the conduct of
occupants and users of his or her watercraft and shall be subject to the fines
and penalties provided herein in division (A) above for the conduct of the
occupants or users of his or her watercraft.
(Ord. 707, passed 3-4-1974)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   DOOR-TO-DOOR SALESMEN AND SOLICITATIONS
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: DOOR-TO-DOOR SALESMEN AND SOLICITATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Door-to-door solicitation prohibited
   
110.02   Charitable and religious solicitations exempted
   
110.03   Owners’ sale of produce exempt
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DOOR-TO-DOOR SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall go in or upon private residential premises, not having been
requested or invited to do so by the owner or occupant of such premises, for
the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or
services or for the purpose of selling such goods, wares, merchandise or
services.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-15-1975) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 CHARITABLE AND RELIGIOUS SOLICITATIONS EXEMPTED.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the incidental
solicitation and sale of merchandise by religious or charitable organizations
provided that such solicitation and sales are made by bona fide members of such
religious or charitable organization.
   (B)   The burden of proof of exempt status under this section shall be upon
the person claiming such exempt status.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-15-1975)
§ 110.03 OWNERS’ SALE OF PRODUCE EXEMPT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to an owner of any product of
his or her own raising nor shall they apply to any person who by state or
federal law or Constitutional provision is exempted.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-15-1975)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be fined not more than
$100 or imprisoned not more than 30 days or both.
(Ord. 737, passed 12-15-1975)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
Customer Service Standards
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Telephone and office availability
   
111.03   Handicapped access
   
111.04   Employee identification
   
111.05   Installations
   
111.06   Service interruptions and other service problems
   
111.07   Installation and service appointments
   
111.08   Notices and customer notifications
   
111.09   Bills
   
111.10   Disconnection/denial of service
   
111.11   Deposits, refunds and credits
   
111.12   Rates, fees and charges
   
111.13   Parental control option
   
111.14   Periodic subscriber survey
   
111.15   Enforcement
   
111.16   Cable officer or Cable Commission
   
111.17   Rights reserved by franchise authority
Regulation of Rates and Charges
   
111.30   Regulation by village
   
111.31   Adoption of 47 C.F.R. part 76, subpart N
   
111.32   Utilization of a rate consultant
   
111.33   Application
CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words not
defined are given their meaning in § 602 of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. § 522,
and, if none, their common and ordinary meaning. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural number include the singular number, and words in the singular number
include the plural number. The words “must” or “shall” are mandatory and the
word “may” is permissive.
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 as amended by the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., and such legislation
as may amend or supersede it.
   CABLE SERVICE. The one-way transmission of video or other programming
service to subscribers together with any subscriber interaction provided in
connection with such service.
   CABLE SYSTEM.
      (1)   A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and
associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is designed
to provide cable service that includes video programming and that is provided
to multiple subscribers within the franchise area.
      (2)   Such term does not include:
         (a)   A facility that services only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   A facility that serves only subscribers in one or more multiple
unit dwellings under common ownership, control or management, unless such
facility uses any public right-of-way;
         (c)   A facility of a common carrier that is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of Title II of the Communications Act of 1934, 47
U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., except that such facility will be considered a cable
system to the extent it is used in the transmission of video programming
directly to subscribers; or
         (d)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility systems.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FRANCHISE. The right to construct, maintain and operate a cable system over,
on or under streets, roads and all other public ways, easements and rights-of-
way within all or specified areas of the franchise area. The term does not
include any license or permit that may be required by other laws, ordinances or
regulations of the franchise area or the privilege of transacting and carrying
on a business within the franchise area or for disturbing the surface of any
street or public thoroughfare.
   FRANCHISE AUTHORITY. The Village of Paulding, Ohio.
   FRANCHISEE. The holder of any valid franchise to provide cable service
within the franchise area.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Those service conditions which are within the
control of the franchisee. Those conditions which are not within the control of
the franchisee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages and severe or unusual weather conditions. Those
conditions which are ordinarily within the control of the franchisee include,
but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view events, rate
increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and maintenance or upgrade
of the cable system.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint venture
or organization of any kind and the lawful trustee, successor, assignee,
transferee or personal representative thereof.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The surface, the air space above the surface, and the area
below the surface of any public street, highway, lane, path, alley, sidewalk,
boulevard, drive, bridge, tunnel, park, parkways, waterways or other public
right-of-way including public utility easements or rights -of-way and any
temporary or permanent fixtures or improvements located thereon now or
hereafter held by the franchise authority that shall entitle the franchisee to
the use thereof for the purpose of installing and maintaining a cable system.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who legally receives any one or more of the services
provided by the cable system.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.02 TELEPHONE AND OFFICE AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   The franchisee shall provide subscribers a toll-free or local
telephone number for installation, service and complaint calls.
   (B)   The franchisee must have telephone lines, either adequately staffed or
with answering capability, providing at least emergency referral information,
and that are operational 24 hours a day, every day, including weekends and
holidays.
   (C)   Under normal operating conditions and when phones are staffed,
subscriber calls to the franchisee will be answered on average within 30
seconds 90% of the time measured on a quarterly basis; and subscribers will
receive a busy signal 3% of the time or less. Failure to meet these standards,
within a reasonable time, after notice of failure to do so, shall subject the
franchisee to appropriate enforcement actions.
   (D)   (1)   On weekdays, during normal business hours, the franchisee must
have its office(s) located within the 35 miles of at least 90% of the total
subscriber base open and adequately staffed to respond to subscribers in at
least two ways:
         (a)   To accept payments; or
         (b)   To exchange or accept return of franchise-provided equipment.
      (2)   At all times, the franchisee must have local or toll free telephone
lines available and adequately staffed to respond to subscribers in at least
two ways:
         (a)   To schedule and conduct technical calls; and
         (b)   To respond to subscriber inquiries.
   (E)   On Saturdays, the franchisee must have telephone lines and adequate
staff available: at the option of the franchisee either at its office or in the
field to schedule and perform emergency service or emergency technician calls;
and to respond to subscriber inquiries which may be answered by advising the
caller when and to what number to call back during weekdays.
   (F)   The franchise shall notify the franchise authority as promptly as
possible, by any available means including accessing telephones away from the
franchisee’s premises, whenever there is a total interruption of telephone
service which affects the franchisee’s cable system. The franchise authority
will provide the required telephone number to the franchisee on an annual basis
by January 1, or as needed.
   (G)   The franchisee shall have an office accessible to the franchise area
at which it shall be able to respond to subscribers a minimum of 40 hours a
week, during normal operating conditions.
   (H)   The franchisee will provide either an office, an agent or a “drop box”
within 15 miles of 90% of the total subscriber base to receive payments.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.03 HANDICAPPED ACCESS.
   The franchisee shall comply with all rules and regulations applicable to its
operations under the Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101
et seq.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.04 EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION.
   All personnel of the franchisee contacting subscribers or potential
subscribers outside the office of the franchisee must be clearly identified as
associated with the franchisee.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.05 INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Standard installation charges will apply to those installations that
are within serviceable addresses and consist of an aerial or underground drop
of no more than 125 feet in length running from the nearest feeder cable of the
cable system to the terminal of the subscriber, using exposed wiring inside the
subscriber’s premises. Installations requiring materials or procedures that
exceed those minimum lengths, or in the case of any underground drop that
involves unforeseen or extraordinary conditions, could be subject to additional
charges, as determined by the franchisee, provided that such additional charges
shall be fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory, to the extent applicable law
and regulations provide.
   (B)   All installations will be in accordance with FCC rules, including, but
not limited to, appropriate grounding, adjustment of the television set in
order to receive cable service, and the provision of required consumer
information and literature to instruct the subscriber in the use of the cable
services.
   (C)   Under normal operating conditions, if the franchisee cannot perform
standard installations as defined above within seven business days of request
by a subscriber (provided that the schedule or preferences of the person
requesting installation have not been responsible for the delay), the
subscriber may request and is entitled to receive a free standard installation.
If the franchisee fails to provide this free standard installation and the
request was made by the subscriber within 30 days of the installation request,
the franchise authority may direct the franchisee to issue a credit for the
installation. Failure to comply with the franchise authority directive will
subject the franchisee to appropriate enforcement actions. This section does
not apply to the introduction of new products and services when the franchisee
is utilizing a phased introduction.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.06 SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS AND OTHER SERVICE PROBLEMS.
   (A)   The franchisee shall make repairs promptly, and interrupt cable
service only if necessary and for the shortest period possible.
   (B)   Under normal operating conditions, the franchisee shall promptly
notify the franchise authority of any “significant service interruption” in the
operation of the cable system. For the purposes of this section, a SIGNIFICANT
SERVICE INTERRUPTION in the operation of the cable system shall mean any outage
a duration of at least two continuous hours between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to
10:00 p.m., and four continuous hours between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., to at least 10% of the subscribers in the area served by the head-end.
The franchise authority will provide the required telephone number to the
franchisee on an annual basis by January 1, or as needed.
   (C)   The franchisee shall exercise its best efforts to limit any
significant service interruption for the purpose of maintaining, repairing or
construction of the cable system. Except in an emergency or other situation
necessitating a more expedited or alternative notification procedure, the
franchisee may schedule a significant service interruption only after the
franchise authority has been given reasonable prior notice of the proposed
interruption.
   (D)   Technicians employed by the franchisee and capable of performing
emergency repairs and maintenance must be available 24 hours a day, including
weekends and holidays.
   (E)   The franchisee shall provide upon request of the franchise authority,
a summary of service calls received by category to the franchise authority. The
definitions used to classify service calls for FCC required reports shall be
used in such reports. The report shall be compiled for the franchise area.
   (F)   Under normal operating conditions, the franchisee will begin repairing
service interruptions promptly and in no event later than 24 hours after the
interruption becomes known (including weekends and holidays) unless the
subscriber requests an appointment later than 24 hours after the interruption.
   (G)   Under normal operating conditions, the franchisee must begin actions
to correct cable service problems other than service interruptions the next
business day after notification by a subscriber of the cable service problem
unless the subscriber requests an appointment at a later date.
   (H)   Under normal operating conditions, service-related subscriber
complaints, if possible, must be resolved within 48 hours (provided that the
schedule or preferences of the person requesting service have not been
responsible for the delay) and in any event, resolution must occur within one
week (provided that the schedule or preferences of the person requesting
service have not been responsible for the delay). A complaint shall be
considered to be resolved when signals received by the subscriber have been
brought into compliance with applicable FCC standards. Those matters requiring
additional maintenance, repair or technical adjustments that necessitate an
excess of one week to reasonably complete, must be finally resolved, if
technically feasible, within 30 days of the initial complaint if the complaint
has been determined to be the fault of the franchisee. The franchise authority
may require reasonable documentation to be provided by the franchisee to
substantiate the additional time to resolve a complaint. The foregoing does not
apply to service interruptions that occur on an intermittent basis.
   (I)   Under normal operating conditions, upon request by the subscriber
within 30 days of the outage, the franchisee shall provide a credit to
subscriber when there is an outage of all channels for a period of six
consecutive hours or more that affects the discrete definable portion of the
franchise area. The credit for such an outage shall equal, at a minimum, the
value of one-thirtieth of subscriber’s current monthly bill, excluding premium,
pay-per-view and special events, for the first six consecutive-hour period and
for each additional six-hour period or portion thereof that the outage
continues.
   (J)   Under normal operating conditions, upon request by the subscriber
within 30 days of the outage, the franchisee shall provide a credit to
subscriber when there is an outage of any premium cable service for a period of
six consecutive hours or more that affects a discrete, definable service area.
The credit shall equal, at a minimum, the value of one thirtieth of the
subscriber’s current monthly bill, for affected premium services, for the first
six consecutive-hour period and for each additional six-hour period or portion
thereof that the outage continues.
   (K)   The franchisee shall, upon request, provide information to the
franchise authority, regarding the amount of credits that were issued to
subscribers for loss or degradation of service. The report shall be compiled
for the franchise area.
   (L)   Repeated failure to provide the proper credit for outages shall be
grounds for enforcement as provided by the franchise.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.07 INSTALLATION AND SERVICE APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The “appointment window” alternatives for installations and service
calls that require subscribers’ presence, will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four-hour scheduled time block during normal business hours. The
schedule time block may be longer if the subscriber consents, (the franchisee
may schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
business hours for the express convenience of the subscriber). This provision
does not apply to disconnects, service upgrades or downgrades that do not
require access to the subscriber’s premises or to special request orders.
   (B)   Under normal operating conditions, if the franchisee does not arrive
for installations or service calls by appointment within the scheduled four-
hour time frame agreed to by the subscriber, the subscriber may request and is
entitled to receive a free standard installation. If the franchisee fails to
provide such free standard installation, and the request was made by the
subscriber within 30 days of the missed appointment, the franchise authority
may direct the franchisee to issue the credit. Failure to comply with the
franchise authority’s directive will subject the franchisee to appropriate
enforcement actions.
   (C)   Under normal operating conditions, the franchisee may not cancel an
appointment with a subscriber after the close of business on the business day
prior to the scheduled appointment without the subscriber’s consent.
   (D)   If the franchisee’s representative is running late for an appointment
with a subscriber and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled,
the franchisee will make an effort to contact the subscriber directly. If,
however, the subscriber is unavailable at the time the contact attempt is made,
the franchisee will attempt a second contact at least one more time during the
previously agreed upon appointment window. The appointment will be rescheduled,
as necessary, at a time which is convenient to the subscriber. Contacting the
subscriber will not necessarily negate the requirement for a free standard
installation.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.08 NOTICES AND CUSTOMER NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   An opportunity for review and comment by the franchise authority
required under this section shall not imply that prior approval of the
franchise authority is required. However, in the event of an error concerning
the franchise authority’s information, the franchisee shall not be in
compliance with notification requirements.
   (B)   (1)   The franchisee shall send an annual written notice to all
subscribers informing them that any complaints or inquiries not satisfactorily
handled by the franchisee may be referred to the franchise authority.
      (2)   Such notification shall be either:
         (a)   A separate document that may be included with a billing
statement; or
         (b)   Included on the portion of the monthly bill that is to be
retained by the subscriber.
      (3)   The franchisee’s telephone number for cable service and the
telephone number for the franchise authority shall be contained in the notice.
The franchise authority will provide the required telephone number to the
franchisee on an annual basis by January 1, or as needed. This notice shall
also fully describe the franchisee’s telephone hours and, when applicable, the
lobby hours and shall include the telephone number(s) available to subscribers
after the franchisee’s normal business hours through which subscribers can
obtain, at a minimum, emergency referral information.
   (C)   The franchisee shall notify affected subscribers of any pricing
changes or additional charges (excluding temporary marketing and sales
discounts or offers) and/or any changes in programming services (including a
scrambling or descrambling of channels - except the descrambling of a channel
(s) for promotional purposes) in a manner consistent with federal law.
   (D)   (1)   The franchisee shall provide written information to subscribers
on each of the following areas at the time of installation of cable service, at
least annually to all affected subscribers, at any time upon request and, for
affected subscribers, at least 30 days prior to making significant changes in
the information required by this section:
         (a)   Products and services offered;
         (b)   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services and facilities;
         (c)   Installation and service maintenance policies including, when
applicable, information regarding the subscriber’s home wiring rights and
information describing ownership of internal wiring during the period cable
service is provided;
         (d)   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
         (e)   Channel positions of programming offered on the system;
         (f)   Billing and complaint procedures, including the name, address
and telephone number of the franchise authority;
         (g)   The availability of a parental control device;
         (h)   The franchisee’s practices and procedures for protecting against
invasions of privacy;
         (I)   The address and telephone number of the franchisee’s office to
which complaints may be reported; and
         (j)   When applicable, the franchisee’s community unit identifier as
specified by the FCC.
      (2)   In all subscriber communications, the franchisee shall be as clear
and precise as possible.
   (E)   Notices of changes in rates shall indicate the new rate and the amount
the rate has increased or decreased from the current rate in dollars and cents
and percentages. Specific words such as “increase” or “decrease” must be used
to describe the changes (as opposed to less specific terms, such as
“adjustment”).
   (F)   Notices of changes of programming and/or channel locations shall
include a concise description of the new programming and/or channel locations
and the specific dial location, of that programming and/or channel locations.
In addition, should the dial location be affected by the introduction of new
programming and/or channel locations, such information must also be included in
the notice.
   (G)   In order that subscribers are fully apprised of the charges they may
incur, the franchisee will generally be required to note that advertised rates
are subject to additional taxes and fees.
   (H)   In order that subscribers are fully apprised of the charges they may
incur, telephone communications with subscribers that quote rates, fees and/or
other charges shall inform subscribers that the rates, fees and/or charges are
subject to additional taxes and fees.
   (I)   Every notice of termination of cable service shall include all of the
following information:
      (1)   The address of the subscriber whose account is delinquent;
      (2)   Current account balance;
      (3)   The date by which payment is required in order to avoid termination
of cable service; and
      (4)   The telephone number of a representative of the franchisee who can
provide additional information and handle complaints or initiate an
investigation concerning the cable service and charges in question.
   (J)   For informational purposes only, a listing of the franchisee’s
closings or holidays will be provided to the franchise authority annually, by
no later than January 1 and by no later than every anniversary thereafter.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.09 BILLS.
   (A)   Bills must be itemized, in accordance with service or services
purchased by subscribers and related equipment charges as provided by law and
regulations. If, on bills, the franchisee chooses to itemize as a separate line
item franchise fees and/or other governmentally imposed fees attributable to
the total bill, such fees must be shown in accordance with any applicable law
concerning the franchisee’s ability to itemize such fees.
   (B)   Every residential subscriber sending payment directly to the
franchisee shall have at least five business days from the postmarked date of
the initial bill for the delinquent amount for cable service to pay the listed
charges prior to disconnect for non-payment.
   (C)   A specific due date shall be indicated on every subscriber bill that
is current. This provision applies only to active, current accounts not those
accounts pending disconnect with delinquent balances.
   (D)   Any subscriber who, in good faith, disputes all or part of any bill
has the option of withholding the disputed amount without disconnection until
the franchisee has investigated the dispute and has made a determination that
the amount is owed provided that:
      (1)   The subscriber pays all undisputed charges;
      (2)   The subscriber provides written notification of the dispute to the
franchisee in a timely manner and includes identifying information; and
      (3)   The subscriber cooperates in determining the appropriateness of the
charges in dispute.
   (E)   Subscriber bills from the franchisee shall include the name, address
and telephone number of the franchise authority. The franchise authority will
provide the required information to the franchisee on an annual basis by
January 1, or as needed.
   (F)   The franchisee shall forward, on a monthly basis, a sample bill for
the current billing period to the franchise authority.
   (G)   The franchisee shall forward all regulatory billing inserts and copies
of all other mailings required by governmental authorities to subscribers to
the franchise authority at the time that they are provided to subscribers.
(Copies of notices to subscribers must be forwarded to the franchise authority
pursuant to this section.)
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.10 DISCONNECTION/DENIAL OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not terminate residential cable service for
nonpayment of a delinquent account unless the franchisee provides initial
notice of the delinquency and impending termination at least five business days
prior to the proposed termination. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid,
to the subscriber to whom the cable service is billed. This notice shall not be
mailed until the twenty-fifth day after the initial bill for cable service was
mailed to the subscriber. The notice of delinquency and impending termination
may be part of a billing statement. This section does not apply to subscribers
disconnected due to checks returned due to insufficient funds.
   (B)   The franchisee shall only terminate cable service on days when the
subscriber can reach a representative of the franchisee either in person or by
telephone. Cable service terminated without good cause must be restored without
charge for the restoration of the cable service. Good cause includes, but is
not limited to, signal leakage, failure to pay, payment by check for which
there are insufficient funds, theft of cable service, abuse of equipment or
cable system personnel, or other similar subscriber actions.
   (C)   The franchisee shall furnish and maintain cable services to each
person passed by the cable system who qualifies for service and who makes a
request to receive any programming service. Nothing in this section shall limit
the right of the franchisee to deny cable service to any household or
individual that has a negative credit or service history with the franchisee,
which may include nonpayment of bills or theft or damage to the franchisee’s
equipment, or who has threatened or assaulted employees of the franchisee in
the course of their employment, provided that, in the event cable service is
denied, the franchisee will give notice to the subscriber of the right to
contact the appropriate regulatory authority, providing name, address and phone
number as directed by the franchise authority.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.11 DEPOSITS, REFUNDS AND CREDITS.
   (A)   The franchisee may require refundable deposits for service or
equipment. Upon termination of cable service for any reason, subscribers will
be entitled to receive a refund or credit against amounts owed by the
franchisee equal to the deposit. On all deposits, the franchisee shall pay
simple interest at a rate of 0.5% per month (6% per year). Such interest shall
be accrued and payable upon termination of cable service. Upon termination of
cable service for any reason, subscribers will be entitled to receive a refund
or credit against amounts owed the franchisee equal to the deposit plus
accumulated interest. The rate may be modified to reflect prevailing market
rates upon approval by the franchise authority which shall not be unreasonably
withheld. Such interest shall be accrued on deposits charged to subscribers
after the effective date of the franchise, the franchisee shall not be required
to pay simple interest on deposits received prior to such effective date.
   (B)   Refund checks will be issued promptly within 45 days following the
resolution of the event giving rise to the refund.
   (C)   The franchisee shall mail a check for a refund to any subscriber
disconnecting cable service with an outstanding credit of $3 or more within 45
days of the date cable service is ended, and the subscriber has returned all
equipment owned by the franchisee. The subscriber is entitled to receive a $10
penalty payment, in addition to the total refund due if the refund is not
provided within the 45-day period. Failure to comply with the $10 penalty
provision shall be grounds for appropriate enforcement actions. Refunds will be
provided to subscribers with outstanding credits of less than $3 upon request.
   (D)   Credits for cable service will be issued no later than the subscribers
next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.12 RATES, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The franchisee shall not, except to the extent permitted by applicable
law, impose any fee or charge on any subscriber for service calls to said
subscriber’s premises to perform any repair or maintenance work related to the
franchisee-installed equipment necessary to receive cable service, except for
any such work that was necessitated by a negligent or wrongful act of said
subscriber.
   (B)   The franchisee may hold a subscriber responsible and liable for all
theft, loss or damage to converters or other equipment provided to the
subscriber by the franchisee, provided, however, to the extent it can be shown
by the subscriber with clear and substantial evidence that the actions of the
franchisee, its agents or subcontractor(s) reasonably caused such theft, loss
or damage to franchisee’s equipment, then such subscriber shall have no
liability.
   (C)   All charges for residential cable service must be applied on a
nondiscriminatory basis as provided by applicable law.
   (D)   The franchisee may assess a late charge on delinquent accounts of not
more than 25% providing at least 25 days have elapsed after the due date of the
bill and the subscriber was mailed a written notice of delinquency. No late
charge may be assessed on the amount of a bill in dispute if found in favor of
the subscriber.
   (E)   The franchisee shall be entitled to recover a fee for all checks
returned due to non-sufficient funds.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.13 PARENTAL CONTROL OPTION.
   Consistent with applicable law, the franchisee shall provide, free of
charge, or for a charge approved by the franchise authority or the FCC,
parental control devices to all subscribers who wish to be capable of deleting
objectionable programming from the cable service entering the subscriber’s
residence.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.14 PERIODIC SUBSCRIBER SURVEY.
   (A)   (1)   At least every three years during the term of its franchise the
franchisee shall conduct a random survey of subscribers within the franchise
area in a form and manner approved by the franchise authority. The franchise
authority’s approval of the form and manner of the franchisee’s proposed survey
shall not be unreasonably withheld and such approval shall be deemed granted if
the franchise authority has not specifically disapproved the proposal in
writing (stating the reasons for such disapproval) within ten business days of
the receipt of the survey proposal from the franchisee.
      (2)   Each questionnaire shall be prepared and processed in good faith so
as to provide reasonably reliable measures of subscriber satisfaction with:
         (a)   Signal quality;
         (b)   Response to subscriber complaints;
         (c)   Billing practices;
         (d)   Programming services; and
         (e)   Installation practices.
   (B)   The survey shall be conducted in conformity with such requirements,
including supervision and review of survey responses, as the franchise
authority may prescribe. At the option of the franchisee, the franchisee may
satisfy the requirements of this section through a survey conducted by an
independent person approved by the franchise authority who is qualified to
conduct such surveys.
   (C)   Should the franchisee elect to utilize an independent person to
conduct such surveys, the franchise authority shall receive a written copy of
the results of the survey directly from the person who conducted it. The
franchisee shall report in writing to the franchise authority what steps
(including but not limited to, correcting problems, modifying services and/or
practices or expanding services) the franchisee is taking to implement the
findings of the survey.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A) The franchise authority may make orders and assess reasonable penalties
against the franchisee for violation of any of these customer service
standards. The order(s) may require the franchisee to undertake an activity
pursuant to these standards and may assess a reasonable penalty not to exceed
$300 per day for each day that the franchisee fails to comply with such order
(s). An order of the franchise authority shall be final only after a hearing
before the legislative authority of the franchise authority.
   (B)   The franchise authority may seek injunctive relief or any other
judicial remedy available pursuant to applicable federal or state law in order
to enforce compliance with these standards.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.16 CABLE OFFICER OR CABLE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The franchise authority may delegate the enforcement of these customer
service standards to a cable officer or Cable Commission established or
designated by the legislative authority of the franchise authority.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the cable officer or Cable
Commission shall be:
      (1)   (a)   The hearing of complaints of subscribers made in writing to
the franchise authority regarding alleged violation(s) of the customer service
requirements;
         (b)   All reasonable efforts shall be made to resolve any complaint
through informal methods;
         (c)   In the event any complaint can not be informally resolved, a
hearing shall be held with at least ten days’ written notice to the franchisee
and the complainant;
         (d)   After the hearing, findings and conclusions shall be made and
orders may be issued and/or penalties may be assessed, if appropriate;
         (e)   All formal decisions regarding complaints shall be subject to
referral to the legislative authority of the franchise authority which may act
to affirm, overrule or modify the decision or any aspect of the decision within
30 calendar days of the issuance of the decision; and
         (f)   Should the legislative authority not take an action on any
decision referred to it, the decision shall stand as issued.
      (2)   (a)   As required or permitted under applicable federal or state
law, rule or regulations, review of requests for the establishment of or
changes to rates, fees and charges for basic service, equipment and
installation and recommendations for such rates, fees and charges shall be
presented to the franchise authority for approval or disapproval.
         (b)   In completing such review(s), the staff of the franchise
authority and/or qualified outside professional assistance may be utilized as
appropriate and authorized by the franchise authority.
         (c)   Except as required or permitted under applicable federal or
state law, rule or regulations, no change in rates, fees or charges for basic
service, equipment or installation shall be deemed approved or disapproved
until after a hearing by the franchise authority and appropriate action has
been taken by the legislative authority of the franchise authority.
   (C)   (a)   Establish a schedule of regular meetings to be held at least
twice per year and hold such special meetings as may be reasonable and
appropriate.
      (b)   All meetings shall conform with the rules and laws related to
public notification and open meetings as set forth in applicable local, state
or federal codes.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 111.17 RIGHTS RESERVED BY FRANCHISE AUTHORITY.
   The franchise authority reserves the right to establish additional,
reasonable consumer service standards from time to time, as may be necessary,
after making a finding of need and after notice and opportunity to be heard
from the franchisee.
(Ord. 1196-98, passed 11-2-1998)
REGULATION OF RATES AND CHARGES
§ 111.30 REGULATION BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   All rates and charges for basic cable service and any other cable
programming services, as defined by the 1992 Cable Act and applicable FCC
regulations, shall, to the extent permissible, be subject to regulation by the
village in a manner provided by this subchapter. This subchapter shall apply to
all cable television system operators in the village. The grantee and/or any
other operator of a cable television system operating in the village shall be
subject to the rate regulation provisions provided for herein, and those of the
FCC at 47 C.F.R. Part 76, Subpart N, being 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.901 et seq.
   (B)   The village reserves the right to amend this subchapter from time to
time consistent with the requirements of FCC, state and federal law.
(Ord. 1304-03, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 111.31 ADOPTION OF 47 C.F.R. PART 76, SUBPART N.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts and shall follow the rules relating to cable
rate regulation promulgated by the FCC at 47 C.F.R. part 76, subpart N. Prior
to approving or disapproving any rates, the village shall provide an
opportunity for consideration of the views of interested parties.
   (B)   Upon adoption of this subchapter, the Village Clerk-Treasurer will
send to the grantee and each operator of a cable television system in the
village, via certified mail, return receipt requested, a written notice, which
shall include a copy of this subchapter and notice that the subchapter is
certified by the FCC to regulate the cable television rates authorized by the
subchapter.
   (C)   Within 30 days after receipt of the aforesaid notice, the grantee and
any other cable television operator shall have 30 days to file its rate
schedule and justification for rates for the basic service tier and associated
equipment using the appropriate official FCC forms.
      (1)   If the existing rates and/or any subsequent rate increases are
within the FCC standards, the rates will be effective 30 days after submission.
      (2)   Except in the case of a FCC Form 1240 - Annual Update Form filing
(which is subject to division (C)(3) below), if the village is unable to
determine whether the rate at issue is within the FCC’s standards, based on the
material before it, or if the grantee or any other cable operator has submitted
a cost-of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the FCC’s reasonable
rate level, the village may take an additional period of time to make a final
determination and toll the effective date of the proposed rates for a
commensurate period.
         (a)   The village may take an additional 90 days if it needs more time
to ensure that a rate is within the FCC’s rate standards.
         (b)   The village may take an additional 150 days to evaluate a cost-
of-service showing seeking to justify a rate above the reasonable rate level.
         (c)   The village must issue a brief written decision regarding its
invocation of the additional time period. This written decision shall be
prepared by the Village Administrator or his or her designee.
         (d)   If the village has availed itself of additional time under
divisions (C)(2)(a) or (C)(2)(b) above and is still unable to determine if the
rate at issue is within the FCC’s standards, then it may preserve its right to
rule, and order a refund if necessary, by issuing a brief order directing the
grantee, or any other cable operator in the village, to keep an accurate
account of all amounts received by reason of the rate in issue and on whose
behalf such amounts were paid. Such order shall be issued by the Village
Administrator, or his or her designee.
      (3)   Where the grantee, or any other cable operator, files an FCC Form
1240 - Annual Update Form, the filing must be made at least 90 days before a
rate change is to be implemented and the village shall have 90 days from the
date of the filing to review it.
         (a)   If the village is unable to determine whether the rate at issue
is within the FCC’s standards during the 90-day review period and has taken no
action, then the proposed rate(s) may go into effect at the end of the review
period, subject to a prospective rate reduction and a refund of all amounts
received by reason of the rate in issue if the village issues a written
decision disapproving any portion of such rates within 12 months of the form’s
filing date.
         (b)   If the grantee, or any other cable operator in the village
inquires in writing during the review period as to whether the village intends
to issue a rate order after the review period, the village must notify the
operator of its intent in this regard within 15 days of receipt of such written
inquiry in order for the village to preserve its right to order a prospective
rate reduction and refund.
      (4)   The village may issue a written decision to approve a rate
schedule, but in all cases in which a rate schedule is being disapproved, a
written decision shall be issued by the village.
      (5)   If rates are in excess of the FCC’s standards, the rates may be
reduced and/or refunds may be ordered by the village pursuant to applicable FCC
regulations.
   (D)   After the initial rate schedule procedures are followed, as described
in this section, the grantee and/or any other cable operator shall, in
conjunction with each change in the rates and charges applicable to basic cable
service, conform to the standards of the FCC. Before any rate change is
effective, the grantee and/or any other cable operator shall notify the village
of its requested rate change by giving the village at least 30 days’ advance
written notice before the change is effective and by providing the village with
its rates and applicable information pursuant to FCC regulations.
   (E)   To the extent specifically permitted by federal law and applicable FCC
rules, the grantee and/or any other cable operator shall be permitted to appeal
to the FCC for a review of the decision of the village.
(Ord. 1304-03, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 111.32 UTILIZATION OF A RATE CONSULTANT.
   (A)   The village may utilize a rate consultant to advise it on proposed
rate changes and to assist it in the procedures and the standards for review
adopted by the FCC. A rate consultant may be any person who has sufficient
background and experience, in the sole opinion of the village, to properly
evaluate and analyze rates and charges.
   (B)   All costs for the review of initial rates or rate changes shall be
paid by the cable operator upon demand of the village, unless contrary to
applicable rules of the FCC governing these procedures or unless otherwise
specifically preempted by state or federal law. The costs shall include, but
not be limited to, rate consultants, attorney fees and the reasonable value of
services (as determined by the village) rendered by the village or any village
employees, agents or representatives of the village.
(Ord. 1304-03, passed 8-25-2003)
§ 111.33 APPLICATION.
   The requirements described in this subchapter are applicable to the grantee
and all operators of cable television systems within the village subject to
rate regulation according to the 1992 Cable Act and applicable FCC rules.
(Ord. 1304-03, passed 8-25-2003)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Picketing of a memorial service and/or a funeral
   
130.02   Firearms
   
130.03   Curfew for children
   
130.04   Loitering
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 PICKETING OF A MEMORIAL SERVICE AND/OR A FUNERAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FUNERAL. The ceremonies and memorial services held in connection with the
burial or cremation of the dead but does not include funeral processions on
public streets or highways nor does it include the wake (sometimes referred to
as a visitation or vigil).
      MEMORIAL SERVICE. A service held to memorialize a deceased person with
their body not present.
      PICKETING OF A FUNERAL. Protest activities engaged in by a person or
persons located within 300 feet of the premises of a cemetery, mortuary, church
or other place of worship or other location during, and which target, a
memorial service or funeral.
   (B)   A person commits the offense of unlawful picketing of a memorial
service or funeral if he or she engages in picketing of a memorial service or
funeral during the period from one hour prior to the commencement of any
memorial service or funeral through one hour following the cessation of any
memorial service or funeral.
   (C)   Any person who pickets within street or road rights-of-way shall stay
at least three feet from the traveled portion of the street or road.
(Ord. 1505-15, passed 7-29-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge any cannon, pistol or other firearm of any
kind whatsoever within the municipality. This section shall not, however,
prohibit the firing of a military salute or the firing of weapons by persons of
the national armed forces acting under military authority, and shall not apply
to law enforcement officials in the proper enforcement of the law and shall not
apply to any person in the proper exercise of the right of self-defense, and
shall not prohibit hunting during lawful hunting seasons in the Paulding
Reservoir Park Area between the dam and to the east boundary of the park area
therefrom and, in addition thereto, on the east one-half of the said Paulding
Reservoir itself.
(Ord. 939-86, passed 11-17-1986) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 CURFEW FOR CHILDREN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business carried on for a
profit or any place of amusement or entertainment to which the public is
invited.
      JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 18 years.
      OFFICIAL COUNTY TIME. Eastern Standard Time as followed by the State of
Ohio and as in use at the time of any violation of this section.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, partnership or corporation, operating, managing
or conducting any establishment and whenever used in any clause prescribing a
penalty the term OPERATOR as applied to associations or partnerships shall
include the members or partners thereof and as applied to corporations shall
include the officers thereof.
      PARENT. Any natural parent of a juvenile, a guardian or any adult person
responsible for the care and custody of a juvenile.
      PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any privately owned place, field, woods, pond, lake,
quarry, barn, vacant or unoccupied house or other building owned by
individuals, partnerships, associations or corporations.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, highway, road alley, park, playground,
public building or lot.
      REMAIN. To loiter; idle; wander; drive or ride with others or by self in
or on any type vehicle, animal, boat or other means of transportation; stroll
or play in or upon any and every forbidden area.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any juvenile to be and to remain in or
upon any public place or establishment or upon private property belonging to
persons other than their parent between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
of the following day, official county time, on any day except that on Fridays
and Saturdays the hours shall be 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day.
      (2)   The provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to a juvenile
accompanied by a parent or to a juvenile engaged in lawful employment of a
juvenile engaged upon a parent sanctioned errand or activity evidenced by a
signed writing of sanction thereof by a parent.
(Ord. 845-82, passed 11-15-1982) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 LOITERING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LOITERING. Remaining idle in essentially one location and shall include
the concepts of spending time idly loafing or walking about aimlessly and shall
include the colloquial expression “hanging around”.
   (B)   Certain types of loitering prohibited. No person shall loiter on or
about the public streets or sidewalks of the village and do any of the
following:
      (1)   Breach the peace; or create a disturbance or unreasonable annoyance
to other persons using the streets or sidewalks or to any other person;
      (2)   Obstruct the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles;
      (3)   Obstruct, molest or physically interfere with any person; or
      (4)   Engage in conduct which creates an unreasonable risk of physical
harm, including making remarks of an offensive, disgusting or insulting nature
to another person.
   (C)   Order and refusal to leave. When any police officer has reasonable
grounds to believe that any person loitering on any street or sidewalk is
likely to cause any of the conditions enumerated in division (B) above, the
police officer may order that person to leave the place in order to preserve
the public peace and safety.
(Ord. 775-79, passed 1-15-1979) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
130.01 within the corporation limits of the village is guilty of a first degree
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined in an amount not
exceeding $1,000. Each day a violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person under the age of 18 years who violates the provisions of §
130.03 shall be apprehended and charged as being an unruly child and taken
before the Juvenile Court in the county, following the procedure as provided in
R.C. Chapter 2151.
   (D)   Any person who violates §
130.04(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Any person who
refuses to leave the sidewalk or street after being ordered to do so by a
police officer under §
130.04(C) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 775-79, passed 1-15-1979; Ord. 845-82, passed 11-15-1982; Ord. 1505-15,
passed 7-29-2015)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   ENTERPRISE ZONE PROGRAM
      
152.   SIGNS
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of IPMC Property Maintenance Code
   
150.001   Adoption by reference
   
150.002   Grace period
Assigning the Costs of Inspection and Permitting the Use
of Agents in Inspection
   
150.015   Inspection of buildings, premises and vacant lots
   
150.016   Costs of inspection
   
150.017   Revision of IPMC sections
   
150.018   No limitation on other enforcement actions
Infestation of Properties by Pests
   
150.030   Definitions
   
150.031   Inspection of buildings, premises and vacant lots
   
150.032   Prohibited conduct or conditions
   
150.033   Notice
Demolition of Insecure and Unsafe Buildings
   
150.045   Prohibition
   
150.046   Village to have free access
   
150.047   Written notice
   
150.048   Appeal
   
150.049   Hearing
   
150.050   Advertise for bids for demolition
   
150.051   Owner to be liable
Standards for Rehabilitation of Certain Exterior Construction and Improvements
in the
Downtown Improvement District
   
150.065   Adoption of standards
   
150.066   Rehabilitation Board of Review
   
150.067   Rules and procedures
   
150.068   Demolition permit; application
   
150.069   Appeal
Long-Term Residence in Non-Permanent Structures, Campers or Vehicles
   
150.080   Prohibited
 
   
150.999   Penalty
ADOPTION OF IPMC PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 150.001 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The village hereby adopts the IPMC, attached hereto as Exhibit #1, as
supplemented by the addendum to the IPMC, attached hereto as Exhibit #2, by
reference as if set out in full herein. A copy of the IPMC Property Maintenance
Code is available in the village office.
(Ord. 1565-19, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 150.002 GRACE PERIOD.
   (A)   For minor violations of the IPMC Property Maintenance Code, 30 days
will be granted for the correction or remediation of the violation. For major
violations of the above, six months will be granted for the correction or
remediation of the violation. For the purposes of this section, minor
violations are those which require less than $500 to repair, major violations
are all other violations. All inspections under this subchapter will be
performed by a certified inspector, as selected by the village.
   (B)   No grace period shall be extended for any violation, major or minor,
should the violation pose a serious or imminent risk to public health and/or
safety.
(Ord. 1565-19, passed 7-15-2019) Penalty, see §
150.999
ASSIGNING THE COSTS OF INSPECTION AND PERMITTING THE USE OF
AGENTS IN INSPECTION
§ 150.015 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, PREMISES AND VACANT LOTS.
   The Mayor or the Mayor’s agent(s) is authorized to make such inspections of
buildings, lots and premises, as he or she deems necessary to investigate and
abate insect or rodent infestations or harborages. For the purpose of making
such inspections, the Mayor or the Mayor’s agent(s) is authorized to enter,
examine or survey at all reasonable times. Such entry shall be made in a manner
as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the person in control, and the
Mayor or the Mayor’s agent(s) shall obtain an order for this purpose from a
court of competent jurisdiction in the event entry is denied or resisted.
(Ord. 1572-19, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 150.016 COSTS OF INSPECTION.
   If the village receives a formal complaint which contains statements and/or
evidence sufficient to warrant inspection in the sole opinion of the Mayor or
the Mayor’s agent, the cost of the inspection as set forth in §
150.015 shall be paid by the property owner to the village if the complaints
are substantiated by any evidence found in the inspection. Should a property
owner fail to pay the costs of inspection within 30 days of notice, the same
may be collected by the village in any manner permitted by law.
(Ord. 1572-19, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 150.017 REVISION OF IPMC SECTIONS.
   The following sections of the IPMC as previously adopted in §
150.001 are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 101.1. Insert: Village of Paulding;
   (B)   Section 112.4. Insert: $50.00, $ 1,000.00;
   (C)   Section 302.4. Insert: 12;
   (D)   Section 304.14. Insert: May 1, October 31;
   (E)   Section 602.3. Insert: October 1, May 31; and
   (F)   Section 602.4. Insert: October 1, May 31.
(Ord. 1572-19, passed 10-7-2019)
§ 150.018 NO LIMITATION ON OTHER ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   Nothing in this legislation or in the Property Maintenance Code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed; nor
shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or
affected by this legislation.
(Ord. 1572-19, passed 10-7-2019)
INFESTATION OF PROPERTIES BY PESTS
§ 150.030 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HARBORAGE. Any condition which provides shelter or protection for insects
and rodents; thus, favoring their multiplication and continued existence in,
under, outside a structure or premises.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rodents, vermin or other pests.
   PEST. A harmful, destructive or nuisance insect, fungus, rodent, nematode,
bacterium, bird, snail, weed, or parasitic plant or a harmful or destructive
form of plant or animal life or virus, except viruses, bacteria or other
microorganisms on or in living animals, including human beings. For the
purposes of this subchapter, the definition of a PEST shall include, but is not
limited to: mosquitoes; cockroaches; and rats.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed.
(Ord. 1568-19, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 150.031 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS, PREMISES AND VACANT LOTS.
   The Mayor is authorized to make such inspections of buildings, lots and
premises, as he or she deems necessary to investigate and abate insect or
rodent infestations or harborages. For the purpose of making such inspections,
the Mayor is authorized to enter, examine or survey at all reasonable times.
Such entry shall be made in a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the person in control, and the Mayor shall obtain an order for
this purpose from a court of competent jurisdiction in the event entry is
denied or resisted.
(Ord. 1568-19, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 150.032 PROHIBITED CONDUCT OR CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All buildings, lots and premises shall be kept free of
infestation or harborage. The person in control shall not allow the
accumulation of water, refuse, garbage or other harborage.
      (2)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single-dwelling unit
shall be responsible for the extermination of insects, and/or rodents, on the
premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his
or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
rodent-proof or reasonable insect-proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
      (4)   Whenever infestation exists in two or more of the dwelling units in
any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two
or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of
the owner.
   (B)   When any buildings, lots or premises are so infested, the person in
control shall promptly utilize extermination measures in the manner prescribed
by law, regulation or manufacturer’s directions; provided, however, that the
extermination measures prohibited by federal, state or local law or regulation
shall not be utilized, nor shall measures be used that that would be injurious
to human health. After the infestation is eliminated, proper precautions shall
be taken to prevent reinfestation.
   (C)   If the person in control of any buildings, lots or premises is
notified in writing as provided and fails to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter within ten days, the Mayor may cause such harborage to be removed or
have such infestation abated. The actual cost of removal or abatement plus any
other penalties or costs allowed by law in connection therewith, under any of
the circumstances herein set out, shall become a lien upon the property from
which such removal of harborage or abatement of infestation occurs.
   (D)   This section, insofar as possible, shall be harmonized with the
requirements of the contemporaneously considered IPMC, if adopted. Nothing in
this section shall be construed to reduce or limit the requirements on property
owners or occupants under the IPMC, nor to limit the remedies available
therein. Further, the remedies available hereunder shall be available in
addition to those set forth in the IPMC and nothing contained in the IPMC shall
limit the enforcement of this section.
   (E)   The conduct prohibited herein shall be considered a nuisance and
subject to abatement and enjoinment of said nuisance.
(Ord. 1568-19, passed 7-15-2019)
§ 150.033 NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever it appears to the Mayor that an insect or rodent harborage or
infestation exists, he or she shall issue and cause to be served on the person
in control, a complaint stating the charges in that respect and specifying a
reasonable amount of time for abatement.
   (B)   If after such time the Mayor determines that such condition has not
been abated, the person in control shall be deemed to be in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1568-19, passed 7-15-2019)
DEMOLITION OF INSECURE AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.045 PROHIBITION.
   No owner of a building, dwelling or structure within the boundaries of the
village shall permit the same to remain in such an advanced state of disrepair
as to endanger the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the community
or as to be a public nuisance by reason of its condition.
(Ord. 1144-96, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 150.046 VILLAGE TO HAVE FREE ACCESS.
   The Village Chief of Police shall have free access at any reasonable hour
upon showing appropriate identification when a building is occupied, to make
inspection, examination and survey of any building, dwelling or structure
located within the village, where he or she has probable cause to believe the
building, dwelling or structure is unsafe, insecure, structurally defective or
in an unhealthful, unsanitary condition and thereby dangerous to the citizens
of the village.
(Ord. 1144-96, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 150.047 WRITTEN NOTICE.
   Upon determination by the Chief of Police of the village that any building,
dwelling or structure is in such an advanced state of disrepair by reason of
defective or inadequate plumbing or sanitary facilities or faulty or defective
electrical wiring; accumulation of debris, filth, rubbish or garbage; general
deterioration of the structure by reason of age, neglect, exposure to the
elements or vandalism; failure of the exterior enclosure causing exposure to
the elements and general deterioration of the stricture, partial damage to the
structure by reason of deterioration or damage to the foundation, so as to
endanger the health, safety and welfare of the public and is therefore a public
nuisance, he or she shall give written notice, by certified mail, to the
holders of legal or equitable liens of record upon real property on which such
building, dwelling or structure is located and to the owners of record of such
property at the last known address of said lienholders and owners, directing
them to effect the repairs necessary to put the building, dwelling or structure
in a reasonably safe condition within 30 days of the receipt of such notice, or
if any of the lienholders or owners are unknown and cannot be located, by
publishing a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the community for
a period of not less than two consecutive weeks, notifying said lienholders
and/or owners to effect such repairs as are necessary to put the building in a
reasonably safe condition within 30 days of the publication of the second
notice. No repairs shall be made unless requirements of applicable governmental
building and/or zoning codes are complied with.
(Ord. 1144-96, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 150.048 APPEAL.
   Within 30 days after the receipt of such notice or the last publication of
the same in a newspaper, as provided in this subchapter, the owner may appeal
to the Council of the village, the finding by the Chief of Police that any such
building, dwelling or structure is in such an advanced state of disrepair as to
endanger the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 1144-96, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 150.049 HEARING.
   Upon receipt of written appeal as provided in §
150.048, Council shall set the matter down for hearing within 30 days after
receiving said notice of appeal and the owner shall have an opportunity to
appear before the Council and to present evidence that the building, dwelling
or structure is not in such an advanced state of disrepair for any of the
reasons set forth in §
150.047 as to endanger the health, safety and welfare of the public, and
therefore, is not a public nuisance.
(Ord. 1144-96, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 150.050 ADVERTISE FOR BIDS FOR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   If no appeal is filed from the finding of the Chief of Police within
the 30-day period, or if the Council affirms the findings of the Chief of
Police and determines the building, dwelling or structure involved to be a
public nuisance, Council shall order the Clerk to advertise for bids for the
demolition and removal of the building, dwelling or structure in accordance
with requirements of all applicable governmental building and/or zoning codes.
   (B)   In the event Council is apprised that the owner has appealed its
determination to the proper state court, then all proceedings shall be stayed
pending final determination by the proper state court and appellate courts.
(Ord. 1144-96, passed 6-17-1996)
§ 150.051 OWNER TO BE LIABLE.
   All charges, costs and expenses arising out of or connected with the
demolition and removal of any insecure, unsafe or unhealthful building,
dwelling or structure, pursuant to this subchapter, shall be paid by the owner
of the premises upon which any such building, dwelling or structure is
situated, within 90 days after the demolition or removal thereof as provided
for in this subchapter and if not paid within said 90-day period, it shall be
certified to the Auditor of the county as which time the lien shall vest, and
the Auditor shall place the same on the tax duplicate of the county, with the
interest and penalties allowed by law, and be collected as other taxes.
(Ord. 1144-96, passed 6-17-1996)
STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION OF CERTAIN EXTERIOR CONSTRUCTION
AND IMPROVEMENTS IN THE DOWNTOWN IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
§ 150.065 ADOPTION OF STANDARDS.
   The village adopts the United States Secretary of the Interior’s Standards
for Rehabilitation, as amended from time to time (hereinafter called “the
Standards”), for the Downtown Improvement District of the village which is
bounded on the east, beginning at North Water Street at East Caroline, south to
East Jackson including buildings abutting on North Main only, to the alley
between Perry and Harrison Streets, west to North Cherry, north including
buildings only on the east side of North Cherry Street to the alley between
Jackson and Caroline, then east to Williams Street, north to Caroline Street
continuing east to North Water Street. A true and complete copy of the
Standards shall be kept on file at the village’s principal office by the
Village Administrator.
(Ord. 1084A-94, passed 1-18-1994)
§ 150.066 REHABILITATION BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (A)   Village Council, upon recommendation by the Mayor, is empowered to
appoint a five member Rehabilitation Board of Review (hereinafter called “the
Board”), each member of which shall have some association with, connection to
or special interest in the village, which may include by way of example,
residency or employment in the village. One member shall be a member of the
village’s Planning Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals. One member shall be
appointed with the approval of the Board of Commissioners of the county. One
member shall be appointed with the approval of the village’s Plan Committee.
One member shall have some specialized training in architecture or engineering.
One member shall be from the village’s Building Inspection Department.
   (B)   Board members shall be appointed for terms of six years each, except
that the term of one member of the first Board shall be for four years and the
terms of two members of the first Board shall be for two years. All members
shall serve without compensation. Vacancies may be filled for the unexpired
terms only.
   (C)   Board members may be appointed to successive terms without limitation.
   (D)   (1)   The Board may recommend removal of any member for good cause.
Good cause shall include, without limitation, failure of a member to perform
appointed duties or unethical conduct. Following review, the Board may request
the Village Council to remove the member based upon review findings.
      (2)   Upon failure of a Board member to attend three consecutive Board
meetings or upon failure to attend 30% or more of the Board’s meetings within
any 12-month period, the Board shall review the circumstances relative to the
member’s attendance. Following the review, the Board may request Village
Council to remove the member based upon review findings.
   (E)   If any Board member ceases to have some association with, connection
to, or special interest in the village (other than his or her being a Board
member), the same shall constitute his or her resignation from the Board,
effective upon the date a replacement is appointed by Village Council upon
recommendation by the Mayor.
(Ord. 1084A-94, passed 1-18-1994)
§ 150.067 RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Board of Review may adopt its own rules and procedures, which shall be
similar in form and content to those used by the village’s Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1084A-94, passed 1-18-1994)
§ 150.068 DEMOLITION PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any owner of real property utilizing grant funds (whether individual,
partnership, corporation or otherwise) who applies for a building, sign or
demolition permit related in whole or in part to exterior construction or
improvement in the Downtown Improvement District shall obtain a certificate of
appropriateness (hereinafter called “a certificate”) or a conditional
certificate from the Board as a condition precedent to receipt of the building,
sign or demolition permit. The owner may obtain a certificate by filing an
application therefore with the Village Zoning Administrator, which application
shall include sufficient documentation and information to enable the Board to
determine if the proposed work will conform to the Standards. Within 21 days
after an application for conformity with the Standards, notice of the date,
time and place of the Board’s meeting shall be given to the owner at the
address set forth on the owner’s application by certified mail not less than
seven days prior to the date on which such meeting is held. With consent of the
owner, the date, time or place of such meeting may be rescheduled.
   (B)   (1)   If the Board finds that the proposed work substantially conforms
to the Standards, it shall issue a certificate.
      (2)   If the Board finds that the proposed work does not substantially
conform to the Standards but that modifications can be made thereto so as to
result in substantial conformity with the standards, the Board may issue a
conditional certificate, which shall describe all necessary modifications to be
taken by the owner to substantially conform to the Standards.
      (3)   If the Board finds that the proposed work does not substantially
conform to the Standards and that, more likely than not, a conditional
certificate cannot bring about substantial conformity with the Standards, the
Board shall deny a certificate.
(Ord. 1084A-94, passed 1-18-1994)
§ 150.069 APPEAL.
   Any determination by the Board may be appealed in writing by the owner to
Village Council for further review and final determination. Village Council
shall review the appeal and shall issue its determination no later than 45 days
after receipt of the appeal.
(Ord. 1084A-94, passed 1-18-1994)
LONG-TERM RESIDENCE IN NON-PERMANENT STRUCTURES,
CAMPERS OR VEHICLES
§ 150.080 PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to regulate in the village, the
location of and to encourage, stabilize and protect the development,
installation and placement of campers/motor homes/recreational vehicles used in
the village for residential purposes for more than ten days in any six-month
period, whether such homes or structures are located inside or outside of
mobile/manufactured home parks. Unless clearly indicated otherwise, when used
in this section, the term “structure to which this section applies” includes
any other structure referenced in this section, but also includes tents and
sheds or other outbuildings.
   (B)   No structure to which this section applies shall be permitted in the
village, unless it is not being used for residential or dwelling purposes for
more than ten days in any six-month period. For any consecutive period of use
under this section, written notice must be given to the village office by the
prospective resident no less than 72 hours after such residence begins.
(Ord. 1590-20, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   After the expiration of the grace periods established in §
150.002, fines for violation of §
150.001 will be assessed as follows: for minor violations will be $15/day for
minor violations, and $100/day for major violations.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
150.030 through
150.033 shall be fined $50 for a first offense, an amount not to exceed $100
for a second offense, an amount not to exceed $100 for a third offense, and an
amount not to exceed $150 for a fourth and all subsequent offenses §§
150.030 through
150.033 is violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Any violation of §
150.080 shall be a minor misdemeanor and shall be punishable pursuant to the
provisions of the Ohio Revised Code and/or the ordinances and laws of the
village. Subsequent violations of §
150.080 shall be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, and shall be punishable
pursuant to the provisions of the Ohio Revised Code and/or the ordinances and
laws of the village. Each day in violation is a separate offense.
(Ord. 1565-19, passed 7-15-2019; Ord. 1568-19, passed 7-15-2019; Ord. 1590-20,
passed 9-8-2020)
CHAPTER 151: ENTERPRISE ZONE PROGRAM
Section
   
151.01   Creation
§ 151.01 CREATION.
   (A)   The Ohio Enterprise Zone Act (“the Act”), under R.C. §§ 5709.61
through 5709.69 has authorized counties, with the consent and agreement of
affected municipalities and townships therein, to amend areas of Enterprise
Zones and to execute agreements with certain enterprises for the purpose of
establishing, expanding, renovating or occupying facilities and hiring new
employees and preserving jobs within said zones in exchange for specified local
tax incentives granted by the county.
   (B)   The Village Council, upon due consideration, desires to implements
said Act and to designate an Enterprise Zone within the boundaries of the
village to promote economic welfare of said municipality.
   (C)   It is necessary for the Council to formally request from the County
Commissioners (“The Board”) the inclusion of the municipality in an Enterprise
Zone amendment and to include such an ordinance in a petition to the Director
of Development of the state to certify the area described as such a zone.
   (D)   The Council finds and determines that designation of the zone pursuant
to the R.C. § 5709.632 will promote economic welfare of the residents of the
municipality by creating new jobs and retaining and preserving existing jobs
and opportunities within such areas and is in the best interest of said
municipality.
   (E)   The Council understands that the Board of County Commissioners is
required by law to administered all Enterprise Zones and agreements within the
county and will therefore appoint a designee to be responsible for:
      (1)   The establishment and operation of the Tax Incentive Review Council
as specified in R.C. § 5709.85;
      (2)   To ensure that the Enterprise Zone Agreements contain the
information required in R.C. § 5709.632, including, but not limited to, a
description of the project, the amount, to be invested, the number of jobs
created and/or retained, the annual new payroll associated with these jobs, and
the specific percentage and term of the tax exemptions being granted toward
real and/or person property;
      (3)   To forward copies of all Enterprise Zone Incentive Agreements to
both the State Department of Development and the State Department of Taxation
within 15 days after the agreement is entered into, as specified in the Ohio
Revised Code;
      (4)   To notify affected school boards of proposed projects a minimum of
14 days prior to formal local legislative consideration and to include comments
by the school boards as part of the review process are required under R.C. §
5709.83;
      (5)   To maintain a centralized record of all aspects of the Zone,
including copies of the agreements, a list of the members of the Tax Incentive
Review Council, and a summary of the Tax Incentive Review Council’s annual
review of each agreement; and
      (6)   To submit a comprehensive annual zone activities on or before March
31 of each year pursuant to R.C. § 5709.68.
   (F)   The Council is requesting amendment of an Enterprise Zone which
includes all or part of the municipal corporation and meets the population
boundary and distress requirements to be certified as an Enterprise Zone under
R.C. § 5709.632.
(Ord. 1315-04, passed 5-17-2004)
CHAPTER 152: SIGNS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose; objectives
   
152.02   Scope; conflicts
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Prohibitions
   
152.05   Placement of signs
   
152.06   Maintenance of nonconforming signs
   
152.07   Unauthorized signs and signals, hiding from view, advertising
   
152.08   Other administrative procedures
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote public health, safety and
welfare by establishing reasonable regulations governing the size, character,
location and structural integrity of signs and other advertising structures.
This chapter is enacted to promote:
      (1)   Vehicular and pedestrian safety by prohibiting signage that
obstructs the view of or distracts attention from traffic-control devices;
      (2)   Vehicular and pedestrian safety by eliminating visual obstructions
resulting from signage located adjacent to or over public rights-of-way;
      (3)   Public safety by establishing design and maintenance standards for
advertising structures that reduce the risk of fire, collapse and fragmentation
and by providing for the inspection and removal of advertising structures that
have become unsafe;
      (4)   Public safety by prohibiting signs that interfere with firefighting
and rescue efforts; and
      (5)   Economic well-being by permitting commercial enterprises to use
advertising structures of sufficient size to fulfill communicative needs while
prohibiting excessively large structures and sign competition that tends to
depreciate the value of adjacent properties.
   (B)   All regulations are to be construed in favor of promoting vigorous
political debate and accommodation of the rights of residents and visitors to
speak freely. The provisions of this chapter shall be uniformly enforced
without regard to the content of any advertising message or the identity of the
proponent of that message.
(Ord. 1362-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 152.02 SCOPE; CONFLICTS.
   The provisions of this chapter supplement building standards established by
the Ohio Building Code and ordinances pertaining to zoning and the regulation
of business enterprises. In the event of a conflict, the more restrictive
standard shall apply.
(Ord. 1362-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the terms “sign”, “closed sign”, “ground sign”,
“marquee sign”, “open sign”, “portable sign”, “projecting sign”, “roof sign”,
“temporary sign” and “wall sign” shall be accorded the meaning attributed to
them by the Ohio Building Code. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign that no longer carries a readable message or that
directs the public to a location where goods or services advertised are no
longer available.
   AREA. The area encompassed by the smallest circle, ellipse, triangle,
rectangle, trapezoid, pentagon, hexagon or octagon that completely contains a
sign, including any perimeter frame, but excluding all supports or uprights on
which the sign may be placed. Where a sign consists of individual letters,
words or symbols, the area of each component shall be computed and TOTAL SIGN
AREA shall be computed as the sum of the areas encompassed by the individual
components.
   BILLBOARD. Any sign advertising, identifying or directing attention to any
product, service, entertainment or commercial activity that is not offered on
the lot on which the sign is located.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The length of any exterior wall of a building facing a
public right-of- way. In a building that is subdivided by a party wall or walls
into spaces with separate exterior entrances, BUILDING FRONTAGE means the
length of the exterior wall or walls of the building facing the public right-
of-way measured to the center of the party wall or walls. In the event a
building or building unit fronts more than one public right-of-way, the
BUILDING FRONTAGE shall be separately calculated for each facade.
   DILAPIDATED SIGN and/or a NEGLECTED SIGN. A sign that does not present a
neat and orderly appearance, which may be manifested by any of the following
characteristics: rust or holes on or in the sign or sign structure; broken,
missing, loose or bent parts; faded or flaking paint; non-operative or
partially non-operative illuminating or mechanically devices; and missing
letters in sign copy.
   ERECT. To construct, assemble, install, alter or relocate a sign and
includes the acts of attaching, affixing, hanging, suspending, painting and
placement of signs, but does not include repair or replacement of changeable
copy, repainting, cleaning or other maintenance that does not involve the
repair or replacement of foundation elements, structural members or electrical
components.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign that is illuminated by any internal or external
light source other than non-reflected natural daylight or ambient public street
lighting.
   OBSCENE SIGN. A sign that depicts or otherwise communicates matter deemed
“obscene” or “harmful to juveniles” under standards established by the Ohio
Revised Code.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, limited liability corporation or other legal entity.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign advertising the sale, rental, lease of the premises
or part of the premises on which the sign is displayed.
   VEHICULAR SIGN. Any sign attached or applied to or painted on a vehicle for
the primary purpose of advertising or directing attention to a product,
service, entertainment or commercial activity but does not include words,
graphics or other communication that serves to identify the vehicle as one
ordinarily and routinely used and operated in the course of the business
advertised.
   WINDOW SIGN. A non-illuminated sign painted on, applied to or installed
inside a window for viewing from outside the premises but does not include
window displays of merchandise.
(Ord. 1362-07, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 1592-20, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 152.04 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   With the exceptions set forth hereinafter no signs, including, but not
limited to, permanent yard signs, shall be erected on public property or within
any public right-of-way except by governmental authorities in the discharge of
a governmental function or pursuant to a license to occupy the right-of-way
granted in accordance with R.C. § 131.03. Any sign so located shall be deemed a
public nuisance and subject to immediate removal.
   (B)   No signs shall be erected by nailing, fastening or affixing the sign
in any manner to any tree, rock, post, curb, utility pole, natural feature,
official street sign or marker, traffic-control sign or device or other
structure except as may be set forth herein.
   (C)   The erection of memorial crosses, signs or statues to commemorate the
place of a traffic accident or other death shall be prohibited.
   (D)   No sign shall be placed or erected on either public or private
property without the permission of the owner.
   (E)   Commercial signs, including sign structures, shall be deemed abandoned
if the business, service or commercial site to which it relates has been
discontinued/closed for 90 days.
   (F)   Dilapidated and/or neglected and/or abandoned signs, including the
structure and supports for said signs, shall not be permitted.
   (G)   No ground sign shall be erected within ten feet of any public right-
of-way or within 150 feet of any other ground sign located adjacent to the same
side of the same public right-of-way.
   (H)   No sign shall be erected in any place that interferes with the
ventilation system of a building or impedes access to any fire hydrant or
standpipe, fire extinguisher or fire alarm or to any door, window, fire escape
or other means of egress from a building.
   (I)   No sign exhibiting animated graphic illustrations, flashing or
rotating lights or mirrors, banners, pennants, ribbons, streamers, spinners or
similar devices that move or change appearance shall be erected in any place
that is visible from a public right-of-way or from publicly or privately owned
lands customarily open to vehicular traffic. This division (I) does not
prohibit the erection of public service devices that display the date, time,
temperature or news information in a manner that does not imitate or distract
attention from traffic-control devices.
   (J)   No illuminated sign shall be erected in any place that results in
objectionable brightness or glare in any residential premises or on any public
right-of-way.
   (K)   Abandoned signs, obscene signs, portable signs, roof signs and
vehicular signs are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and are prohibited.
(Ord. 1362-07, passed 6-4-2007) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05 PLACEMENT OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Temporary banners or signs announcing educational, religious,
political, public events or promoting ideas, candidates or issues may be placed
in the right-of-way, however, they shall not interfere with road or highway
visibility or obstruct or otherwise interfere with the safe and orderly
movement of traffic or pose a hazard to pedestrians or traffic. Temporary
banners or signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area total for a given lot.
   (B)   Garage, basement, porch or other casual sale signs may be erected in
residential areas as long as they are not in violation of other sections of
this chapter. This type of sign may not be present for more than three days
after said sale.
   (C)   Temporary banners or signs announcing educational, religious or public
events shall be permitted on the premises where the event is to occur, however,
they shall not be larger than 20 feet square.
   (D)   Street banners may only be placed on the right-of-way of non-limited
access roadways and must vertically clear the pavement by at least 18 feet.
Such banners must be placed a minimum of 1,000 feet apart.
   (E)   Real estate signs may be placed in the right-of-way, however, they
shall not interfere with road or highway visibility or obstruct or otherwise
interfere with the safe and orderly movement of traffic or pose a hazard to
pedestrians or traffic.
(Ord. 1362-07, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 1592-20, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 152.06 MAINTENANCE OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   A sign that was lawfully erected but fails to comply with one or more
subsequently enacted regulations may be maintained and used but shall not be
substantially improved, enlarged or otherwise altered.
(Ord. 1362-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 152.07 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS, HIDING FROM VIEW, ADVERTISING.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be,
is an imitation of or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from view
or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit upon any street any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to streets of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
   (B)   Every such prohibited sign, signal, marking or device is a public
nuisance, and the Police Chief is authorized to remove it or cause it to be
removed.
(Ord. 1362-07, passed 6-4-2007) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08 OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Abandoned signs. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any
sign located on a lot that becomes vacant or unoccupied for three months or
more or any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose that no longer
applies to the zoning lot, shall be deemed to have been abandoned. Permanent
signs applicable to an occupancy temporarily suspended because of a change of
ownership or management shall not be deemed abandoned unless the zoning lot
remains vacant or unoccupied for a period of six months or more. Any
nonconforming sign that, for a period of three consecutive months, advertises
goods, products, services or facilities no longer available or that directs
persons to a location where such goods, products, services or facilities are no
longer available shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
   (B)   Removal of signs by the Zoning Inspector.
      (1)   The Zoning Inspector shall cause to be removed any sign that
endangers the public safety, such as but not limited to, an abandoned,
dangerous or materially, electrically or structurally defective sign or a sign
for which no permit has been issued when one is required. The Zoning Inspector
shall prepare a notice describing the sign, specifying the violation involved,
and stating that if the sign is not removed or the violation is not corrected
within ten days, the sign shall be removed in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   Notices mailed by the Zoning Inspector shall be sent by certified
mail. Time periods provided in this chapter shall commence on the date of the
receipt of the certified mail.
      (3)   If known, or with reasonable care should be known, the notice shall
be mailed to or delivered to the owner of the sign and the occupant of the
property. For all other signs, the notice shall be mailed to the owner of the
property on which the sign is located as shown on the last equalized assessment
roll. Notwithstanding the above, in cases of emergency, the Zoning Inspector
may cause the immediate removal of a dangerous or defective sign without
notice.
   (C)   Disposal of signs; fees.
      (1)   Any sign removed by the Zoning Inspector pursuant to this chapter
shall become the property of the village and may be disposed of in any manner
deemed appropriate by the village. The cost of removal of the sign by the
village shall be considered a debt owed to the village by the owner of the sign
and the owner of the property. Such debt may be recovered in an appropriate
court action by the village or by assessment against the property as
hereinafter provided. The cost of removal shall include any and all incidental
expenses incurred by the village in connection with removal of the sign.
      (2)   If the Zoning Inspector determines that such sign would cause an
imminent danger to the public safety, and if contact cannot be made with the
sign owner or the property owner, the service of a written notice shall not be
required. In such emergency the Zoning Inspector may correct the danger with
costs assessed against the sign owner or property owner.
(Ord. 1592-20, passed 10-5-2020) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any provision of this chapter is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100 for each
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1362-07, passed 6-4-2007)
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statement of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
Definitions
   
153.15   Definitions
General Provisions
   
153.30   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.31   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
153.32   Compliance
   
153.33   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.34   Interpretation
   
153.35   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.50   Establishment of development permit
   
153.51   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
153.52   Designation of the Flood Damage Prevention Administrator
   
153.53   Duties and responsibilities of the Zoning Inspector
   
153.54   Variance procedure
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.65   General standards
   
153.66   Specific standards
   
153.67   Floodways
 
   
153.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 153.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the
legal authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the
health, safety and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Council does
ordain as follows.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the village are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities
and, when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
   (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.04 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Zoning Inspector’s interpretation of
any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The BASE FLOOD may also be referred to as the 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the national flood insurance program.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report in which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries and the
water surface elevations of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent, land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It includes park
trailers, travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than 180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale. This
definition shall exclude any manufactured home park as defined in R.C. §
3733.01, over which the Public Health Council has exclusive rule making power.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
chapter which permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be
prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.30 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the village.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.31 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   (A)   The areas of special flood hazard have been identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled
“Flood Insurance Study for the Paulding Village”.
   (B)   This study, with accompanying flood boundary and floodway maps and/or
flood insurance rate maps dated September 30, 1988 and any revisions thereto is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
Flood Insurance Study is on file at 208 North Williams Street.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.32 COMPLIANCE.
   Unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated
in §
153.51, no structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full compliance with
the terms of this chapter and all other applicable regulations which apply to
uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.33 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.34 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of this chapter may be in conflict with a
state law, such state law shall take precedence over the chapter.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.35 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
153.31.
   (B)   Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Zoning Inspector and may include, but not be limited to: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of the foregoing.
   (C)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all proposed structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
153.66(B); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.51 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   An application for a development permit shall not be required for
maintenance work such as roofing, painting and basement sealing, or for small
development activities (except for filling and grading) valued at less than
$1,000.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.52 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Inspector is hereby appointed to administer and implement this
chapter by granting or denying development permit applications in accordance
with its provisions.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.53 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE ZONING INSPECTOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Zoning Inspector shall include, but are
not limited to:
   (A)   Permit review.
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all development permits to assure that all necessary permits
have been received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies
from which prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for
obtaining such permits as required; and
      (3)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development is located within a designated floodway. Floodways are delineated
in the flood boundary and floodway map or the flood insurance rate map of the
flood insurance study. Floodways may also be delineated in other sources of
flood information. If the proposed development is located within a designated
floodway, assure that the encroachment provision of §
153.67(B)(1) is met.
   (B)   Use of other base flood elevation and floodway data. Areas of special
flood hazard where base flood elevation data have not been provided by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency in accordance with §
153.31 are designated as Zone A on the community’s flood insurance rate map.
Within these areas, the Zoning Inspector shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer §§
153.65(A),
153.66(B) and
153.67.
   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained. Where base flood elevation
data are utilized within areas of special flood hazard on a community’s flood
hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map, regardless of the source of
such data, the following provisions apply:
      (1)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially
improved structures, and whether or not such structures contain a basement;
      (2)   For all new or substantially-improved floodproofed structures:
         (a)   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which the structure was floodproofed; and
         (b)   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
153.50(C)(3).
      (3)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Alteration of watercourses.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Natural
Resources, Division of Water, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency; and
      (2)   Require that necessary maintenance will be provided for by the
applicant for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that the
flood carrying capacity will not be diminished.
   (E)   Interpretation of flood boundaries. Make interpretations, where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions). Where a map boundary and
elevations disagree, the elevations delineated in the flood elevation profile
shall prevail. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
153.54.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.54 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appeal Board.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by the village, shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made
by the Zoning Inspector in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals or
any taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the County Court of Common Pleas, as
provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (f)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and flood plain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (l)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (A)(4) above and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (6)   The Zoning Inspector shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
upon request.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   (a)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (A)(4)(a) through (A)(4)(l)
above have been fully considered.
         (b)   As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
      (3)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in this chapter,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public as identified in
division (A)(4) above, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (6)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.65 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required.
   (A)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   All manufactured homes not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised
Code pertaining to manufactured home parks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. Methods
of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use of over-the-top or
frame ties to ground anchors.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding.
   (C)   Utilities.
      (1)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
      (2)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
      (3)   Individual wastewater treatment systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (D)   Subdivision proposals.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals, including manufactured home
subdivisions, shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
damage.
      (4)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals, including manufactured home subdivisions, and other proposed
developments which contain at least 50 lots or five acres (whichever is less).
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.66 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data have
been provided as set forth in §§
153.31 or
153.53(B), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the base flood elevation.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall, either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
      (1)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice for meeting the standards of this division (B). Such
certification shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
153.50(C)(3).
   (C)   Accessory structures. An exemption to the elevation or dry
floodproofing standards may be granted for accessory structures (e.g., sheds,
detached garages) containing 576 square feet or less in gross floor area. Such
structures must meet the encroachment provisions of §
153.67(B)(1) and the following additional standards:
      (1)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   They shall be designed to have low flood damage potential;
      (3)   They shall be constructed and placed on the building site so as to
offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (4)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation; and
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or floodproofed.
   (D)   Manufactured homes. The following standards shall apply to all new and
substantially-improved manufactured homes not subject to the manufactured home
requirements of R.C. § 3733.01.
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with §
153.65(A)(2).
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such
that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
elevation.
   (E)   Enclosures below base flood elevation. The following provisions apply
to all new and substantially-improved residential and nonresidential structures
which are elevated to or above base flood elevation using pilings, columns or
posts or which contain a crawl space. These structures may enclose the area
below the base flood elevation provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Fully enclosed areas below the base flood elevation shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must:
         (a)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect;
or
         (b)   Must meet or exceed the following criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area shall be provided;
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (2)   Any enclosure which meets these criteria shall be considered as
having met the requirements of §
153.65(A).
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.67 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   The flood insurance study referenced in §
153.31 identifies a segment within areas of special flood hazard known as a
floodway. Floodways may also be delineated in other sources of flood
information as specified in §
153.53(B). The floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of
flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential.
   (B)   The following provisions apply within all delineated floodway areas:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless a technical evaluation
demonstrates that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge;
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall constitute a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any of
its requirements (including violations of conditions of and safeguards
established in connection with conditions) shall upon conviction thereof be
fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the village. Each day such
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful action as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violations.
(Ord. 973-88, passed 8-15-1988)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
Construction and Installation of Streets, Sewers, Water Mains and
Other Utilities in New Subdivisions
   
154.01   Approval
   
154.02   Installation
   
154.03   Water
   
154.04   Streets
   
154.05   Sanitary sewers
   
154.06   Storm sewers and structures
   
154.07   Sidewalks
   
154.08   Gas, telephone and electric utilities
   
154.09   Specification and design standards
   
154.10   Plans
   
154.11   Bond for improvements
Regulation of Platting and Subdivision of Lands
   
154.25   Definitions
   
154.26   Subdivision requirements
   
154.27   Documents required; preliminary plat
   
154.28   Exceptions
CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION OF STREETS, SEWERS, WATER MAINS
AND OTHER UTILITIES IN NEW SUBDIVISIONS
§ 154.01 APPROVAL.
   Approval and acceptance of plats for new subdivisions by the Planning
Commission and the Village Council shall be contingent upon the installation of
the streets, sewers, water mains, fire hydrants, street lights and incidental
utilities as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.02 INSTALLATION.
   Installation of such streets, sewers, water lines, fire hydrants, street
lights and miscellaneous utilities shall be by and at the expense of the
developer as provided herein.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.03 WATER.
   (A)   All subdivisions within the corporate limits of the village shall be
provided with water mains connected to the public water supply of the village.
   (B)   All water mains shall be installed in accordance with the requirements
of the Village Administrator and the Village Council governing size of mains;
location, size and number of hydrants and valves; type and kind of materials
and other details of construction. This requirement shall be in addition to,
and not in lieu of, the other provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Prior to submission to Council or the Village Engineer, plans for the
installation of water mains shall be submitted to and approved by the Village
Administrator.
   (D)   Minimum size of water mains shall be six inches.
   (E)   Fire hydrants shall be placed every 500 feet unless it is impractical.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.04 STREETS.
   (A)   Dimensions and layout standards.
      (1)   The minimum right-of-way widths shall be as established in the
subdivision regulations.
      (2)   The minimum grade of any street shall be 0.25%.
      (3)   The minimum requirement for all horizontal alignment shall be a ten
degree curve for main thoroughfares and primary streets and a 20 degree curve
for all others.
      (4)   The grading of the right-of-way shall meet the minimum crown,
slope, depths and cross sections established by the applicable standards of the
village.
   (B)   Pavement widths. The minimum widths of pavements shall be as follows:
 
Pavement           Width (In Feet)
Crosswalkways      6
Main thoroughfares 48
Minor streets      24
Primary streets    36
Secondary streets  36
Sidewalks          4
 
   (C)   Curbs. Curbs shall be constructed on main thoroughfares, primary and
secondary streets.
   (D)   Construction requirements. The minimum requirements for pavement shall
be:
      (1)   Sub-base. No less than four inches of compacted stone;
      (2)   Base. Four inches waterbound or traffic bound stone, compacted.
(Item B-20 or Item B-119); and
      (3)   Pavement. No less than one inch of #404 bituminous premixed surface
course.
   (E)   Specifications. Construction shall be in accordance with the
specifications of the village for the items of construction required.
   (F)   Street names. The naming of streets and their classes as streets,
avenues or courts shall conform to the village’s adopted system of street
naming as presently or in the future adopted. Streets which are continued shall
be named the same.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.05 SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Sanitary sewers shall be provided for any subdivisions located
within the village. Such sanitary sewers shall be designed and installed so as
to serve adequately each lot in the subdivision.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   The design of sanitary sewers shall be based on the design
standards of the village and the EPA.
      (2)   Materials and details of construction shall be as established by
the design standards and standard specifications of the village and the EPA.
   (C)   Construction. Construction shall be in accordance with the standard
specifications of the village and the EPA.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.06 STORM SEWERS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Where there is a reasonable accessibility to an existing storm sewer,
then storm sewers of a size adequate to entirely serve the entire subdivision
shall be installed by the subdivider.
   (B)   Where there is not reasonable accessibility to an existing storm sewer
then the subdivider shall provide as a minimum requirement, sufficient storm
sewers, catch basins and miscellaneous structures to provide adequate street
drainage for the subdivision.
   (C)   All storm sewers, catch basins, manholes and structures shall be of
the size, type and of the materials as specified by the village and the EPA.
Design shall be in accordance with the standards established by the village and
the EPA, and construction shall be in accordance with the standard
specifications of the village and the EPA.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.07 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks shall be a minimum of four feet in width, three inches compacted
stone base, four inches of concrete with reinforcing, and shall be placed in
front of, on the side of or in the rear of those lots on which the Planning
Commission and Council decide they should be constructed at the time of the
platting of the subdivision. All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance
with the standards, specifications and requirements established by the standard
specifications of the village.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.08 GAS, TELEPHONE AND ELECTRIC UTILITIES.
   All utilities shall be placed before any pavement is constructed in the
proposed streets, unless written approval is obtained from the Village
Administrator to construct the pavement prior to such installation. Such
written approval shall contain the conditions under which such pavement
construction is to be permitted.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.09 SPECIFICATION AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where the standard specifications of the village are referred to, they
shall mean the most recent standard specifications as adopted by the village
and on file in the office of the Clerk and Village Administrator.
   (B)   In those cases where standard specifications have not been adopted,
then the specifications applying to the most recent contract work performed for
the village, covering the same, or closely similar types of construction, shall
govern.
   (C)   Design standards shall be the most recent standards of design as
adopted by the village and on file in the office of the Clerk and Village
Administrator.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.10 PLANS.
   (A)   Two copies of a preliminary layout and description of all proposed
street construction, water main installations, storm and sanitary sewer
installations, and any other items of construction scheduled for the proposed
subdivision shall be submitted at the time the preliminary plat is submitted to
the Planning Commission. The preliminary layout need not be a completed final
drawing. It may be submitted on a print of the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Prior to the starting of any construction of streets, sewers or other
items of construction, two copies of complete detailed construction plans
prepared by a registered professional engineer shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission and Council. Such plans shall be submitted for approval
before the actual beginning of any construction. No construction shall be
started until the plans have been approved by the Planning Commission and
Council or by the Village Engineer in those cases where Council or Planning
Commission directs, at the time of approval of the preliminary layout, that the
construction plans be examined and approved by the Village Engineer.
   (C)   The village reserves the right to make changes in preliminary layouts
or detailed construction plans to ensure conformity with established standards.
   (D)   After the completion of construction, one complete set of construction
plans, marked “as constructed” plans, shall be filed in the office of the
Clerk. Such “as constructed” plans shall note any changes made during the
course of construction from the plans submitted in accordance with division (B)
above. The Engineer who made the plans shall certify that the changes shown
have actually been made and are accurately described and located.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.11 BOND FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In lieu of the completion of the improvements as required, prior to
the approval of the dedication plat, the developer shall give a full
construction performance bond, executed by a surety or sureties, satisfactory
to the fiscal officers of the village or a certified check, guaranteeing the
completion of the improvements within six months or a reasonable period of time
as fixed by the Planning Commission and Council.
   (B)   This bond or check shall be in an amount equal to the cost of
completing the improvements as estimated by the Village Engineer.
   (C)   If not completed as agreed upon, the bond shall be forfeited, the
money collected and the money shall be used only to complete said specified
utilities. The money collected from the bond shall be used for no other
purpose. Any funds remaining after completion of the work shall be returned to
the original depositor or surety company.
(Ord. 696, passed 6-4-1973)
REGULATION OF PLATTING AND SUBDIVISION OF LANDS
§ 154.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A strip of land, dedicated to public use, less than 21 feet between
property lines which provides access to adjacent properties.
   CROSSWALKWAY. A right-of-way, dedicated to public use, ten feet or more in
width, which cuts across a block to facilitate pedestrian access to adjacent
streets and properties.
   CUL-DE-SAC (COURT). A short street having one end open to traffic and being
permanently terminated by a vehicle turnaround.
   EASEMENT. An easement is the right to use lands of another for a specific
purpose.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Any addition to the natural state of the land which increases
its value or utility, including pavements, curbs, sidewalks, gutters,
crosswalkways, water mains, sanitary and storm sewers, street trees and other
appropriate items.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision, or other parcel of land intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership or for development.
   MAIN THOROUGHFARE. A street or road of great continuity which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic-way within the village, county or both.
   MINOR STREET. A street supplementary to a secondary street and of limited
continuity which serves or is intended to serve the local need of a
neighborhood.
   PRIMARY STREET. A street or road of considerable continuity which serves or
is intended to serve as the principal trafficway between large and separated
areas or districts and which is the main means of access to the main
thoroughfare system.
   SECONDARY STREET. A main residential street which carries the burden of
local traffic to primary streets.
   STREET. A right-of-way, dedicated or deeded for public use, which provides
for vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as
contiguous units on the last preceding tax roll, into two or more parcels,
sites or lots, any one of which is less than five acres for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, provided, however, that
the division or partition of land into parcels of more than five acres not
involving any new streets or easements of access, and the sale or exchange of
parcels between adjoining lot owners, where such sale or exchange does not
create additional building sites, shall be exempted; or the improvement of one
or more parcels of land for residential, commercial or industrial structures or
groups of structures involving the division or allocation of land for the
opening, widening or extension of any street or streets, except private streets
serving industrial structures; the division or allocation of land as open
spaces for common use by owners, occupants or lease holders or as easements for
the extension and maintenance of public sewer, water, storm drainage or other
public facilities.
   SUPERBLOCK. A block of exceptionally large size in both dimensions with
access to interior lots by cul-de-sacs branching in from surrounding streets
and providing one or more open spaces.
(Ord. 697, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.26 SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Principles of acceptability.
      (1)   If a tentative or suggested plan or plat of the area has been made
by the Planning Commission and/or the Council, the street layout shall be in
general conformance thereto.
      (2)   The subdivision proposed and its ultimate use shall be in the best
interests of the public welfare and the neighborhood development of the area.
The subdivider shall present evidence to this effect when requested by the
Planning Commission and Council.
      (3)   Insofar as practical, all streets shall be coterminous with
existing or platted streets on adjoining property.
      (4)   Should there be along the adjoining boundary line of another plat a
one-half street or alley, transferred or dedicated and recorded, the other half
of such street or alley must be dedicated on the proposed plat to make it
complete.
      (5)   If it is proposed to dedicate a one-half street along the boundary
of the plat, adjacent to acreage property, a one-foot buffer strip,
conditionally dedicated shall be placed between the proposed one-half street
and the adjacent acreage property. A one-foot buffer strip, conditionally
dedicated, shall be located at the end of each dead end street.
      (6)   Where railroads are involved, provision for grade separations,
buffer strip and other protective media shall be required to the extent and
type as may be practicable.
      (7)   Variations and exceptions from the dimensional standards and
improvement requirements as set forth in these regulations may be made by the
Planning Commission and Council in cases where it is deemed that hardship,
topography or other factual deterrent conditions prevail.
   (B)   Dimensions and layout.
      (1)   Streets, alleys and sidewalks - minimum right-of-way.
Alleys                       20 feet
Crosswalkways                10 feet
                             The maximum length shall be 600 feet; the terminal
Cul-de-sacs (courts)         shall be a circular area with a minimum diameter
                             of 100 feet
Cul-de-sacs and loop streets 50 feet
Easements                    26 feet overall; 18 feet on each side of property
                             line
Main thoroughfare            100 feet
Minor streets                60 feet
Primary streets              80 feet
Secondary streets            60 feet
 
      (2)   Blocks.
         (a)   The maximum length of blocks shall generally be a maximum of
1,000 feet and no less than 500 feet and those over 900 feet will require a
crosswalkway at approximately the center, and any deviations from these figures
are subject to Council approval.
         (b)   The width of blocks shall generally be sufficient to allow two
tiers of lots.
         (c)   Irregular shaped blocks (including super-blocks), indented by
cul-de-sacs, containing interior public spaces, will be acceptable when
adequately designed and fitted to the overall plan and when adequate provision
for the maintenance of public areas is allowed for.
         (d)   Blocks intended for business and industrial use shall be
designated specifically for such purposes with adequate space set aside for
parking and delivery facilities.
         (e)   Where frontage is on a primary or secondary street, the long
dimension of the block should front thereon.
      (3)   Lots.
         (a)   The minimum width shall be 70 feet at the building line.
         (b)   The minimum depth shall be 136 feet at any point.
         (c)   All lots shall abut on a street.
         (d)   Corner lots shall have extra width sufficient for maintenance of
building lines on both sides.
         (e)   The minimum lot area shall be 9,500 square feet.
         (f)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles or
radial to the street line, and the side yards shall be a minimum of ten feet.
         (g)   A minimum front building line of 40 feet shall be established.
         (h)   A minimum side building line of 20 feet shall be established on
sides of lots whose sides abut a highway or street, and the rear yard shall be
a minimum of 30 feet or 25% of yard depth.
         (i)   The numbering of lots shall conform to the village’s or county’s
adopted lot numbering system.
         (j)   The maximum height of building shall be two stories.
         (k)   No lot shall have a depth of more than three and one-half times
the frontage.
      (4)   Street trees. Street trees may be provided and must be placed
outside the street right-of- way.
      (5)   Public spaces. Due regard shall be shown for the preservation of
outstanding natural and cultural features such as scenic spots.
   (C)   Improvements.
      (1)   Streets, sewers, water mains, other utilities and other
improvements shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of §§
154.01 through
154.11.
      (2)   Approval of the final plat is contingent on evidence that the
improvements as required have been made, and/or necessary bonds and fees have
been deposited to guarantee that the improvements will be made, as provided
herein.
(Ord. 697, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.27 DOCUMENTS REQUIRED; PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Filing.
      (1)   Three copies of a preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission and Council, accompanied by one
key map.
      (2)   These copies shall be officially filed with the Clerk of the
Planning Commission and the Village Clerk at least ten days prior to the
regular meeting of the Council in order to receive action at that meeting.
      (3)   The preliminary plat need not be a finished drawing for record
purposes, but shall be legible, drawn to scale and contain the information
required by this subchapter.
   (B)   Preliminary plat shall contain. The preliminary plat shall contain the
following:
      (1)   Identification and description.
         (a)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
         (b)   Location by section, town and range, and city or township, or by
other legal description;
         (c)   Names, addresses of owner, developer and licensed land surveyor,
or other person, who made the plat;
         (d)   Scale of plat, one inch to not more than 100 feet;
         (e)   Date; and
         (f)   Northpoint.
      (2)   Delineation of existing conditions.
         (a)   Boundary line of the proposed subdivision indicated by solid
heavy lines and the total approximate acreage encompassed thereby;
         (b)   Location, widths and names of all existing or prior platted
streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights-of way, parks and
other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures and section and
corporation lines, within or adjacent to the tract;
         (c)   Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within or adjacent to the tract, indicating pipe size, grades and
exact location, as obtained from public records; and
         (d)   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of un-subdivided lands with
the names of the owners thereof, and boundary lines of adjacent subdivided
lands shall be shown but the names of the owners shall not be required.
      (3)   Delineation of proposed conditions.
         (a)   Layout of streets, their names and widths, and also the widths
of alleys, crosswalkways and easements;
         (b)   Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots;
         (c)   Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved
for public use or set aside by deed covenant for use of all property owners in
the subdivision; and
         (d)   Building setback lines, with dimensions.
   (C)   Key map. The key map shall consist of a print of the appropriate tax
map, or its equivalent, at a scale of not less than one inch equals 400 feet,
with the boundaries indicated thereon, and covering the area within a half-mile
radius thereof.
   (D)   Qualifications. The following qualifications shall govern approval of
the preliminary plat:
      (1)   The approval of a preliminary plat by the Planning Commission and
Council is tentative, involving the acceptability of the layout as submitted;
      (2)   The Planning Commission and/or Council on further evidence may
introduce such changes or revisions as are deemed necessary to the interests
and needs of the community;
      (3)   The preliminary approval of the plat is subject to all established
utility and street or highway regulations;
      (4)   All improvement plans must be prepared by a registered professional
engineer and the same must be filed with, and approved by the Planning
Commission and the Council or the Village Engineer in the event that Council or
Planning Commission directs the Village Engineer to examine and approve the
said plans;
      (5)   Tentative approval shall be effective for a maximum period of 12
months, unless, within that time and upon the application of the developer, the
Planning Commission or Council grants an extension;
   [missing material]
      (8)   .......adjoining the plat, and the exact location and widths of all
alleys and crosswalkways, The name of a street shall not duplicate that of any
existing street in the village;
      (9)   Municipal, township, county, grants, tracts or section lines
accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
      (10)   Radii, internal angles, points of curvature, tangent bearings and
lengths of all arcs;
      (11)   All easements for rights-of-way provided for public services or
utilities;
      (12)   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths;
      (13)   All lot corners shall be accurately staked with hardwood stakes at
least three-fourths-inch by 24 inches iron pipe;
      (14)   Accurate location of all monuments, which shall be concrete six
inches by six inches by 30 inches, with iron rod in center, or iron pipe, at
least three-fourths inch in diameter and 36 inches long. One such monument
shall be placed at each corner and at each change in direction of the boundary;
and one such monument shall also be placed at each street intersection and at
the beginning and end of curves, on one side of the street;
      (15)   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property
owners;
      (16)   Building setback lines accurately shown with dimensions;
      (17)   Protective covenants or private restrictions shall be recorded and
the same noted on the final plat. A copy of such protective covenants or
private restrictions shall accompany the final plat;
      (18)   Certification by the licensed land surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him or her, that the monuments show thereon
exist as located, that all dimensional and geodetic details are correct and
that stakes as described in division (D)(13) above have been placed at all
corners of lots and the change in direction of any line except where concrete
monuments have been placed;
      (19)   Notarized certification, by the owner or owners, of the adoption
of the plat and the dedication of streets and other public areas;
      (20)   Approval by signature of village officials concerned with the
specifications and inspection of utility installations and improvements;
      (21)   Certification by County Auditor that there are no unpaid taxes on
the property involved;
      (22)   Acceptance by the Planning Commission and Council of the village;
and
      (23)   Certification by County Recorder that the plat has been recorded.
(Ord. 697, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 154.28 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other provisions of this subchapter the Council may, when it
deems it advisable in the best interest of the public, waive any or all
provisions of this subchapter where a new subdivision contains less than ten
lots abutting on an existing, platted street and does not involve or require
any new streets or the installation of any utilities or other improvements.
(Ord. 697, passed 6-4-1973)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
Scope and Application
    
155.01   Intent and application
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Establishment of code and maps
Districts and District Regulations
    
155.15   Residential Districts
   
155.16   Mobile Home Districts
   
155.17   Business Districts
   
155.18   Industrial Districts
   
155.19   Flood Plain Districts
Regulations Applying to All Districts
   
155.30   Parking and loading facilities
   
155.31   Sign regulations
   
155.32   Nonconforming uses
   
155.33   Essential services
   
155.34   Fences
   
155.35   Satellite dish antennas
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.50   Administrative procedures
   
155.51   Organization of Planning Commission
   
155.52   Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.53   Amending procedures
 
   
155.99   Penalty
SCOPE AND APPLICATION
§ 155.01 INTENT AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Title. This chapter is the “Zoning Code for the Village of Paulding,
Ohio”.
   (B)   Purposes and intent.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this zoning code and the intent of the
legislative authority in its adoption is to promote and protect to the fullest
extent permissible under state laws, the public health, safety, convenience,
comfort, prosperity and the general welfare of the village; by regulating the
use of buildings, other structures and land for residences, public facilities,
business, services, industry or other purposes; by regulating and restricting
the bulk, height, design, percent of lot coverage and location of buildings; by
regulating and limiting population density; and, for the aforesaid purposes, to
divide the land within the corporate limits of the village, into districts of
such number and dimensions in accordance with the objectives of the zoning
code; and to provide procedures for the administration and amendment of said
zoning code.
      (2)   Intent. This zoning code is intended to achieve, among others, the
following objectives:
         (a)   To protect the character and values of residential,
institutional and public uses, business, commercial and manufacturing uses; and
to ensure their orderly and beneficial development;
         (b)   To provide adequate open spaces for light, air and outdoor uses;
         (c)   To prevent overcrowding of the land;
         (d)   To prevent excessive concentration of population; and, on the
other hand, to prevent sparse and uncoordinated development;
         (e)   To regulate and control the location and spacing of buildings on
the lot and in relations to the surrounding property so as to maintain the
public health of the village;
         (f)   To regulate the location of buildings and intensity of uses in
relation to streets according to plans so as to cause the least interference
with, and be damaged least by traffic movements, and hence result in lessened
street congestion and improved public safety;
         (g)   To establish zoning patterns that ensure economical extensions
for sewers, water supply, waste disposal and other public utilities, as well as
development of recreation, schools and other public facilities; and
         (h)   To accomplish the specific intent and goals set forth in the
introduction to the respective sections.
   (C)   Relation to other laws.
      (1)   The provision of this zoning code shall supplement any and all laws
of the state, ordinances of this village or any and all rules and regulations
promulgated by authority of such law or ordinance relating to the purpose and
scope of such zoning code.
      (2)   The provisions of this chapter shall not annul or in any way
interfere with existing deed or plat restrictions, easements or other
agreements between persons, codes, laws, rules, regulations or permits
previously adopted or issued except those ordinances or sections thereof which
are contrary to and in conflict with this chapter.
      (3)   Wherever this code imposes greater restrictions upon the use of
buildings or land, the heights or bulk of buildings, or requires larger land or
building areas, yards or other open spaces than are otherwise required or
imposed by other deed or plat restrictions, codes, laws, ordinances rules or
regulations, this zoning code shall control; and conversely, other regulations
shall control where they impose greater restrictions than this code.
   (D)   Interpretation. In interpreting and applying the provisions of the
zoning code, such provisions shall be held to be the minimum requirements for
the promotion of public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity and
general welfare and to accomplish the objectives set forth throughout the
chapter. Except as specifically provided herein, it is not intended by the
zoning code to repeal, abrogate or annul any existing provision of any law or
ordinance or any rule or regulation previously adopted or issued pursuant to
law relating to the use of structures and land and the design, erection,
alteration or maintenance of structures thereon.
   (E)   Validity. Should any section or provision of this zoning code be
declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the chapter as a whole, or any part thereof, other than
the section or provision so declared to be invalid. Nor shall the decision
affect its application to different facts or circumstances.
   (F)   Form of chapter. This chapter is included as Chapter 155 under code of
ordinances of the Village of Paulding, Ohio. Chapter 155 is subdivided into
sections, commencing with the first section which shall be numbered §
155.01. The two figures “01" after the decimal signify the first section. The
chapter and section headings herein have been inserted for convenience in
reference and are not intended to define or limit the scope of, or otherwise
affect, any provision in this chapter.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. Words in this chapter are normally used in their
ordinary English usage. Certain terms are however, defined in this section and
wherever used in this zoning code, they shall have the meaning as set forth in
the divisions of this section, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
   (B)   General terms. The work “shall” is to be interpreted as mandatory and
shall be complied with unless waived; “may” is to be interpreted as having
permission or being allowed to carry out a provision; “should” is to be
interpreted as expressing that the application of said criteria or standard is
desired and essential unless commensurate criteria or standards are achieved.
All words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the words used in
the present tense shall include the future tense, unless the context clearly
indicates the contrary. The phase “used for” shall include “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for” or “occupied for”.
      BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the Village of Paulding.
      CLERK. The duly acting and qualified Clerk of the Village of Paulding.
      CODE. The zoning code of the Village of Paulding.
      COUNCIL. The legislative board of the Village of Paulding.
      COUNTY. The County of Paulding, Ohio.
      DEVELOPER. A person commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect
the development of land for him, her or for another.
      ENGINEER. The Engineer hired by the Village of Paulding.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, association, corporation, trust or any other
legal entity, including his, her or its agents.
      REGULATION. A rule, restriction or other mandatory provision in this
chapter intended to control, require or prohibit an act.
      STANDARD. A test, measure, model or example of quantity, extent or
quality.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the zoning regulations, permitted in
instances where a literal application of the provisions of the zoning code
would result in unnecessary hardships as a result of some peculiar or unique
condition or circumstance pertaining only to the zoning lot in question in
accordance with procedures and standards set forth in §
155.52.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Paulding.
   (C)   Areas, buildings and land.
      AREA OF BUILDINGS. The area at the ground level of the main building and
all accessory buildings, excluding unenclosed porches, terraces and steps,
measured from the outside surface of exterior walls.
      AREA OF DWELLING UNIT. The sum of the gross floor areas above the
basement level, including those rooms, and closets, having the minimum ceiling
height, light, ventilation and any other features as further defined in §
155.15.
      AREA OF LOT. The total horizontal area within the lot boundary lines of a
zoning lot.
   (D)   Automotive uses.
      ACCESSORY PARKING AREA. An open or enclosed private area, other than a
street, used for the free parking of passenger automobiles for occupants, their
guests or customers, of a main building.
      LOADING SPACE. An open or enclosed space, other than a street used for
the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while its goods are being loaded
or unloaded.
      PRIVATE GARAGE. A building, accessory to a one or two-family dwelling,
used exclusively for the parking or temporary storage of passenger automobiles.
      PUBLIC PARKING AREA. An open or enclosed publicly owned area used for
passenger automobile parking, with or without a fee.
      REPAIR GARAGE. A main or accessory building used or designed for
repairing motor vehicles; a service garage if accessory to an automobile
salesroom.
      SALES LOT. An open area used for the display, sales or rental of new or
used motor vehicles, on which no repair (except minor work) is performed.
      SERVICE STATION. A building and land including pumps, tanks and grease
racks, used for the rental sales of gasoline, lubricants, batteries, tires and
other automobile accessories, and performing minor service and repairs.
      STORAGE GARAGE. A main or accessory building, other than a private
garage, used for the parking or temporary storage of passenger automobiles, and
in which no service shall be provided for remuneration.
   (E)   Building and structures.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building including a private garage
detached from, but located on the same lot as the main building, the use of
which is indicant and accessory to that of the main building of use.
      BASEMENT. The space of a building where the floor level is more than
three feet below the adjoining finished grade.
      BUILDING. A structure which is permanently affixed to the land, having
one or more floors and a roof, being bounded by either open space or lot lines,
and used as a shelter or enclosure for persons, animals or enclosure for
property. The term shall be used synonymously with “structure” unless otherwise
noted, and shall be construed as if followed by the words “part or parts
thereof”.
      BUILDING LINE. A line established by this zoning code, general parallel
with and measured from the front lot line, defining the limits of a front yard
in which no building or structure may be located above ground except as may be
provided in said chapter.
      DETACHED BUILDING. A building surrounded by open space.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the highest point
of the coping of a flat roof, or the vertical distance measured from the ridge
of a pitched roof to the average finished grade across the face of the building
containing its principal entrance.
      LAND COVERAGE. The space of a building where the floor level is more than
three feet below the adjoining finished grade.
      MAIN BUILDING. The building occupied by the main use or activity on or
intended for the premises, all parts of said building are connected in a
substantial manner by common walls and a continuous roof.
      STRUCTURE. That which is constructed on or under the ground or attached
or connected thereto, including, but not limited to, buildings, barriers,
bridges, bulkheads, chimneys, fences, garages, outdoor seating facilities,
parking areas, platforms, pools, poles, streets, tanks, tents, towers, sheds,
signs, walls and walks; and excluding mobile homes, trailers and other vehicles
whether on wheels or other supports.
   (F)   Family.
      FAMILY. Either one individual, two or more persons related by blood,
marriage or adoption, or not more than three persons not related by blood,
marriage or adoption, who live together in one dwelling unit and maintain a
common household;
      ROOMER. A person, other than a member of the family as defined above, who
rents one or more rooms in a dwelling from the resident family.
   (G)   Dwellings and other living accommodations.
      DWELLING. A building designed or occupied exclusively for residential use
and permitted accessory uses.
      DWELLING UNIT. Space, within a dwelling, comprising living, dining,
sleeping room or rooms, storage closets, as well as space and equipment for
cooking, bathing and toilet facilities, all used by only one family and its
household employees.
      MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or similar portable structure having no
foundation other than wheels, jacks, supporting walls or skirting and so
designed or constructed as to permit occupancy for dwelling or sleeping
purposes.
      MOTEL. A building or buildings, providing overnight accommodations
principally for automobile travelers in which access to each rental unit is
provided directly through an exterior door.
      MULTIFAMILY DWELLING. A building consisting of three or more dwelling
units with varying arrangements or entrances and party walls.
         (a)   APARTMENT. A multifamily building comprised of three or more
dwelling units arranged one above the other and side by side, each unit having
at least one entrance connected to a common interior hall leading to the
exterior.
         (b)   TOWNHOUSE. A multifamily building comprised of single dwelling
units attached by common fireproof walls, each unit having at least two
separate exterior entrances.
      ONE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building consisting of a single dwelling unit
only, separated from other dwelling units by open space. It may be attached to
another one-family dwelling by a common fireproof wall.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A building operated for compensation by a resident family,
in which a room or rooms are provided for living and sleeping facilities to one
or more persons.
      TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building consisting of two dwelling units which
may be either attached side by side or one above the other, and each unit
having either a separate or combined entrance or entrances.
   (H)   Grades.
      ESTABLISHED STREET GRADE. The elevation established by the village, at
the roadway, centerline or curb in front of the lot.
      FINISHED GRADE. The elevation of the finished surface of the ground
adjoining the building after final grading and normal settlement.
      NATURAL GRADE. The elevation of the undisturbed natural surface of the
ground prior to any excavation or fill.
   (I)   Home occupations and professional offices.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A gainful occupation enumerated in §
155.15 conducted by members of a resident family wholly within a dwelling or in
a building accessory thereto;
      HOME PROFESSIONAL OFFICE. A secondary office in a dwelling occupied by a
person practicing a profession enumerated in §
155.15.
   (J)   Lot, parcel and land.
      COMMON LAND. Land in a subdivision or development area not owned as
private land or occupied by dwellings created for common usage by restrictions,
easements, covenants or other conditions running with the land, and which is
held for the use and enjoyment by or for the owners or occupants of the
dwellings in a subdivision or development area.
      CORNER LOT. A lot abutting on two streets at their intersection, if the
interior angle of intersection is not more than 135 degrees.
      FRONT LOT LINE. The lot line separating an interior lot from the street
upon which it abuts; to the shortest lot line of a corner lot which abuts upon
a street. Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, it shall be
construed as synonymous with STREET LINE.
      INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
      LOT. A division of land such as an “inlot” or “outlot” separated from
other divisions for purposes of sale, lease or separate use, described on a
recorded subdivision plat, recorded survey map, or by metes and bounds.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance of a lot measured between the
front and rear lot lines.
      LOT LINE. The boundary of a lot separating it from adjoining public,
common or private land, including a public street.
      LOT OF RECORD. Land designated as a separate parcel on a plat map or deed
in the records of Paulding County, Ohio.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance of a lot measured along the building
line at right angle to the mean lot depth line. WIDTH at front lot line is
measured along the street line.
      PRIVATE LAND. Land in a subdivision or development area which shall be
adjoining, attached and assigned to a one-family or townhouse dwelling, to be
held as an open space in ownership with the dwelling in the subdivision or
development area, and which shall be identified on subdivision and development
plans submitted to the village.
      REAR LOT LINE. A lot line parallel or within 45 degrees or being parallel
to the front lot line.
      SIDE LOT LINE. A lot line, which is neither a front nor rear lot line.
      ZONING LOT. A parcel of land abutting a dedicated street, occupied or
intended to be occupied by a main and/or accessory use or a main or accessory
building, as a unit together with such open spaces as required by this zoning
code. Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, the term lot is used
synonymously with ZONING LOT in this zoning code and it may or may not coincide
with a lot of record;
   (K)   Maps, plans and plats.
      DEVELOPMENT AREA. The minimum area of land permitted by this chapter to
be developed by a single owner or a group of owners, acting jointly, which may
consist of a parcel or assembled parcels, and includes a related group of one-
family dwellings, townhouses, and apartment dwellings planned and developed as
an entity under the planned development area procedures.
      FINAL PLAN. The final plan prepared by a developer based upon the
approved preliminary plan of a proposed development or development area which
consists of detailed drawings, specifications, cost estimates and agreements
for the construction of the site improvements and buildings for the proposed
development or development area.
      MAP. A drawing showing geographic, topographic or other physical features
of the land.
      PLAN. A drawing of a proposed design or of work to be performed.
      PLAT. A map of a lot, parcel, subdivision or development area on which
the lines of each element are shown by accurate distances and bearings.
      PRELIMINARY PLAN. A drawing prepared by a developer, which may include
explanatory exhibits and text, submitted to the designated authority for the
purpose of a study of a proposed development of land, or a preliminary plan of
land and buildings of a development area which, if approved by the designated
authority, provides the basis for proceeding with the preparation of the final
plan of a development or development area.
   (L)   Nonconforming building, lot and use.
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building existing lawfully at the time this
zoning code, or an amendment thereto, become effective but which does not
conform to the area, height or bulk of building, yard or other regulations of
the district in which it is located.
      NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot existing lawfully at the time this zoning code,
or an amendment thereto, became effective but which does not conform to the lot
area, width, access or other requirements of the district in which it is
located.
      NONCONFORMING USE. The use of a building or land, existing lawfully at
the time this zoning code, or an amendment thereto, became effective but which
does not conform to the use regulations, off-street parking and loading
requirements, performance standards or other use regulations of the district in
which it is located.
   (M)   Streets.
      STREETS.
         (a)   A public way for purpose of vehicular travel including the
entire area within the rights-of-way. The term includes, but is not limited to,
avenue, alley, boulevard, drive, highway, road and freeway.
         (b)   STREETS shall be classified and further defined as follows.
            1.   CUL-DE-SAC. A street, one end of which connects with another
street and the other end of which is a dead end, which allows space for turning
of vehicles.
            2.   LOCAL STREET. A street primarily for access to abutting
residential properties and to serve local needs.
            3.   MAJOR STREET. A public street, which is primarily for moving
fast or heavy traffic between large or intensively developed districts.
            4.   PRIVATE STREET. A street held in private ownership.
            5.   RIGHT-OF-WAY. All of the land included within an area which is
dedicated, reserved by deed or granted by easement for street purposes.
               a.   ROADWAY. The portion of a right-of-way available for
vehicular travel, including parking lanes.
               b.   TREE LAWN. The portion of a right-of-way lying between the
exterior line of the roadway and the outside right-of-way line.
               c.   OTHER RIGHTS-OF WAY. As follows.
                  i.   EASEMENT. The right of a person to use common land or
private land owned by another for a specific purpose.
                  ii.   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way solely
for pedestrian circulation.
            6.   SECONDARY STREET. A street supplementary to and connecting
major streets to local streets.
            7.   STREET LINE. The street right-of-way line.
   (N)   Use.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use located on the same zoning lot with the main use of
the building, other structure or land, which is subordinate, and related to
that of a main building or main use.
      CONDITIONAL USE. An uncommon or infrequency use which may be permitted in
specific districts subject to the compliance with certain standards and
explicit conditions set forth in this zoning code and the granting of a
conditional use permit.
      MAIN USE. The principal use of an activity conducted in a building, other
structure or on the land.
      USE. Any purpose for which buildings, other structures or land may be
arranged, designed, intended, maintained or occupied; or any activity conducted
in a building, other structure, or on the land.
   (O)   Yards.
      COURT. An open space other than a yard, bounded on two or more sides by
exterior walls of the building, or bounded by exterior walls of a building and
lot lines.
      FRONT YARD. The yard extending from the front wall of the building to the
front lot line across the full width of the lot.
      REAR YARD. The yard extending from the rear wall of the building to the
rear lot line across the full width of the lot.
      REQUIRED YARD. The minimum yard required between a lot line and building
line or the line of any parking area or any other use requiring a yard in order
to comply with the zoning regulations on the district in which the zoning lot
is located. A REQUIRED YARD shall be open and unobstructed from the ground
upward except for projections on buildings as permitted in the zoning code and
except for walks, landscaping and other yard or site features.
      SIDE YARD. The yard extending between a side lot line and the nearest
wall of the building, and from the front yard to the rear yard; provided, that
for a corner lot, the SIDE YARD extends from the front yard to the rear lot
line on the street side.
      YARD. The portion of the open area on a lot extending between a building
and the nearest lot line, or between an accessory use of building and the
nearest lot line as established in the zoning code.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 1613-21, passed 2-16-2021)
§ 155.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF CODE AND MAPS.
   (A)   Establishment of district.
      (1)   In order to carry out the purpose of this chapter, the village is
hereby divided into the following districts, all of which are designed on the
zone map by symbols and boundaries, said districts shall be known as:
Title Abbreviation
Title                   Abbreviation
Residential Districts
   One-Family        R-1
   One- and Two-FamilR-2
   Multifamily       R-3
Mobile Home Districts
   Mobile Home       MH
Business Districts
   Convenience BusineB-1
   General Business  B-2
   Central Business  B-3
Industrial Districts
   Light Industrial  M-1
   Heavy Industrial  M-2
Flood Plain Districts
   Flood Plain       FP
 
      (2)   Whenever the abbreviated terms such as R-1, R-2, B-1, M-1 and the
like are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as referring to their
corresponding district titles.
      (3)   The above classification of districts shall not be construed as an
enumeration of most restrictive to least restrictive districts except for the
specific purposes set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Establishment of regulations.
      (1)   Any building or parcel of land may be used; and the use of any
building and any parcel of land may be changed or extended; and any existing
building may be altered, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, moved or
maintained, only for the uses specifically enumerated or referred to as
permitted, or required, in the district in which the building or parcel of land
is located and for no other use.
      (2)   The enumeration of uses within a district shall not be construed as
a ranking of the most desirable to less desirable uses.
   (C)   Establishment of zone map.
      (1)   The aforesaid districts are designated by symbols and the locations
and boundaries of said districts are established on a map entitled, “Zone Map
of the Village of Paulding, Ohio”, dated November 29, 1999.
      (2)   All notations, schedules and other information shown thereon are
hereby made a part of this chapter as enacted on November 29, 1999 or
subsequently amended in the same manner as other parts of this chapter.
   (D)   District boundary lines. The district boundary lines of the zone map
enclose an area of a designated district, and generally follow recorded lot
lines, the centerline of streets, railroad rights-of- way or their extensions,
provided, however:
      (1)   Where the district boundary line is shown by dimension or
relationship as being located a specific distance from and/or parallel to a
street line, said distance shall control;
      (2)   Where a district boundary line is shown as adjoining a railroad, it
shall, unless otherwise fixed, be construed to coincide with the nearest
boundary line of the railroad right-of-way;
      (3)   Where a district boundary line divides a parcel of land, the
location of such boundary, unless related to fixed points on the property
boundary, shall be determined by scale, and each part of the parcel shall
comply with the regulations of the district in which it is located; or
      (4)   Where a district boundary lines does not coincide with any of the
aforesaid lines and where it is not located by dimensions or fixed points shown
on the zone map shall be determined by the scale appearing thereon and, in case
of other uncertainties, the Village Council shall determine the exact location.
   (E)   Annexed territory. All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the
village, if already zoned, shall be continued in its existing zone
classification until amended in conformance with the procedures outlined in
this chapter.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 1613-21, passed 2-16-2021)
DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.15 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. Residential districts and their regulations are established
herein in order to achieve, among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To regulate the bulk and location of buildings in relation to the
land in order to obtain proper light, air, privacy and usable open spaces on
each zoning lot appropriate for the district;
      (2)   To regulate the density and distribution of population to avoid
congestion and to maintain adequate services;
      (3)   To provide for the proper location of community and shopping
facilities so as to increase the general convenience, safety and amenities;
      (4)   To provide protection from noxious fumes, odors, dust, excessive
noises, invasion of abnormal vehicular traffic and other objectionable
influences; and
      (5)   To protect the desirable characteristics of exiting residential
development, the promotion of stability and the most desirable and beneficial
use of the land.
   (B)   Permitted buildings and uses. Buildings and land shall be used, and
buildings shall be erected, altered, moved and maintained only for the uses set
forth as permitted in the following schedule:
District Main Buildings and Uses Accessory Building and Use
District Main Buildings and Uses           Accessory Building and Use
R-1      One-family dwellings              Private garages and parking areas
         By conditional use permit: public Private garden and recreational
         and private schools library and   uses, structures, pools, fences and
         other public buildings; parks,    walls, homes offices and
         playgrounds and other public land occupations renting of rooms,
         uses; churches, public water      accessory living accommodations;
         supply reservoir, tower and       raising of domestic animals, name
         pumping station; public sewage    plates, bulletin boards, real
         treatment works                   estate signs
R-2      Main buildings and uses permitted Accessory uses permitted in R-
         in R-1 District                   1 District
        One and two-family dwellings      Rooms for tourists
                                           Rooming houses, home for children,
        By conditional use permit: same   home for aging, hospitals, clinics,
         uses enumerated in R-1 District   fraternal organizations and private
                                           clubs
                                           Storage garages and parking areas
                                         for automobile as accessory to two-
                                           family dwellings
R-3      Main buildings and uses permitted Accessory uses permitted in R-
         in R-2 District                   2 District
                                           Storage garages and parking areas
        Apartments and townhouses         for automobiles accessory to
                                           multifamily dwellings
        By conditional use permit: Same    
         uses enumerated in R-2 District
 
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Parking and garage facilities. Private and storage garages and open
off-street parking areas shall be permitted in residential districts of
accessory to a dwelling, an institution or of the use is considered and
approved as a conditional use in accordance with the standards and regulations
set forth in §
155.50(G).
      (2)   Home professional offices. An office may be permitted in
residential districts in the home of a person practicing any of the recognized
professions, including accountant, architect, artist, engineer, lawyer,
musician, physician, provided:
         (a)   No more than one assistant other than members of the resident
family work therein;
         (b)   The residential character of the dwelling exterior shall not be
changed;
         (c)   Equipment which will create any electrical disturbances beyond
the premises shall not be utilized; and
         (d)   Parking facilities are provided in accordance with §
155.30.
      (3)   Home occupations. Gainful home occupations may be permitted in
certain residential districts including home crafts such as baking,
dressmaking, millinery, weaving, home decorating; services such as beauty shop,
repairing furniture and radios, sharpening tools; office space for businesses
or services such as real estate, selling or taking orders for merchandise,
contracting work, provided:
         (a)   Only members of the family residing within the dwelling shall
work therein;
         (b)   The occupation is conducted wholly within a building and the
space used for production and sale does not occupy more than 25% of the floor
area of a detached building;
         (c)   No merchandise shall be sold except that which is produced or
processed on the premises;
         (d)   No mechanical equipment shall be used which will create any
dust, noise, odors, glare, vibrations or electrical disturbances beyond the
lot;
         (e)   The residential character of the dwelling exterior or accessory
building shall not be changed; and
         (f)   Parking facilities are provided in accordance with §
155.30.
      (4)   Renting of rooms. The renting from a resident family, of not more
than one room to not more than one person, shall be permitted in any
residential district.
   (D)   Area, yard and height regulations. Land and buildings shall be used
only in accordance with the lot area regulations; and buildings shall be
erected, altered, moved and maintained only in accordance with the following
area, yard and building height regulations.
      (1)   The area for a zoning lot shall be not less than the width required
for the type of dwelling or other building permitted in the district in which
the lot is located as set forth in division (E) below, multiplied by the number
of units in the building.
      (2)   The width of a zoning lot shall be not less than the width required
for the type of dwelling or other building permitted in the district in which
the lot is located as set forth in division (E) below, or as modified in
subsequent sections, and shall be measured at the building line. Each one and
two-family zoning lot shall abut upon a dedicated street for the required lot
width, except on curved streets, width at the front line may be less provided
the lot width at the building line meets the required lot width of the
particular district.
      (3)   The front yard depth, or setback, of a zoning lot shall be not less
than the depth set forth in division (E) below for the type of dwelling or
other building permitted in the district in which it is located.
      (4)   Two side yards shall be provided for every one- and two-family
dwelling on a zoning lot. Widths of side yards of a lot shall be not less than
the respective dimensions as set forth in division (E) below. In no case will
the distance between detached one-family dwellings be less than 20 feet in any
R-l Residence District, or ten feet between detached one and two-family
dwelling in any R-2 Residence District.
      (5)   The rear yard depth of a zoning lot for main buildings shall be not
less than the depth set forth in division (E) below, for the district in which
it is located, or not less than 25% of the depth of the lot, whichever is the
lesser. A detached accessory building shall be located in accord with yard
regulations as set forth in division (M) below.
   (E)   Schedule of area, yard and height regulations.
                  Min. Lot                                            Max.
         Dwelling Area per  Min. Lot  Front Yard Side Yard  Rear Yard Height
District Type     Dwelling  Width of  Depth      (ft.)      Depth     Main
                  Unit (sq. Lot (ft.) (ft.)                 (ft.)*    Building
                  ft.)                                                (Stories)
                   Min. Lot            Front                       Max.
         Dwelling  Area per  Min. Lot  Yard   Side Yard  Rear Yard Height
District Type      Dwelling  Width of  Depth  (ft.)      Depth     Main
                   Unit (sq. Lot (ft.) (ft.)             (ft.)*    Building
                   ft.)                                            (Stories)
R-1      1 Fam.    9,500     70        40     10         30        2
         Dw.
R-2      1 Fam.    8,500     65        20     5          20        2
         Dw.
         2 Fam.    4,200     65        20     5          20        2
         Dw.
R-3      1 Fam.    7,500     50        20     5          20        2
         Dw.
         2 Fam.    3,750     50        20     5          20        2
         Dw.
         Townhouse 2,500     70        20     **         **        2
         Apartment 1,250     100       20     **         **        6
*   Rear yard depth, 25% of the yard depth or the depth shown in this
schedule
**   Yard dimensions determined by formula, division (F) below
 
   (F)   Multifamily dwellings yard regulations.
      (1)   In order to encourage greater flexibility in design and more
attractive arrangements of buildings and greater utilization of open spaces,
yard regulations for multifamily dwellings are hereby established for single
development and yard regulations for locating several buildings with a group
development.
      (2)   The yards of multifamily buildings shall be related to the space
within the dwelling units as well as the yards. Buildings shall be arranged so
as to assure privacy between adjacent buildings and intersecting wings of
buildings, from streets, parking and recreation areas in accordance with the
following.
         (a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (F), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
            END OR SECONDARY WALL. Any exterior wall of a multifamily building
other than a main wall and containing secondary windows required for
ventilation and not intended to provide a direct view.
            GROUP DEVELOPMENT. A development of more than one multifamily
building on a parcel planned as a unit and coordinated with the surrounding
neighborhood.
            MAIN WALL. Any exterior wall of a multifamily building containing
the principal windows of a living, dining and/or sleeping room or rooms.
            OVERLAPPING WALLS. The portion of the exterior walls which are
directly opposing when two buildings, parallel or within 30 degrees of being
parallel, face each other across an open yard or court.
            SINGLE DEVELOPMENT. A development of one multifamily building on
one lot coordinated with the surrounding neighborhood and fronting on a public
street.
         (b)   Front yard depth. Front yard depth or setback, for multifamily
buildings, in single development or group development, shall be not less than
20 feet measured from the street line or as established otherwise on the zone
map.
         (c)   Distance between facing and overlapping buildings.
            1.   Distance between facing and overlapping buildings or parts
thereof, in a group development or multifamily buildings shall vary in direct
relation to the length and height of buildings. Such minimum distance shall be
determined by the formula:
               Minimum Distance = LA + LB + HA + HB
                            F
            2.   The elements of the formula are defined as follows.
               a.   “Minimum distance” means the required minimum horizontal
distance between any wall of building “A” and the nearest wall of building “B”,
or the vertical prolongation of either;
               b.   “LA” means the total length of building “A”, which, for the
purposes of the formula, is defined as the maximum length of the portion or
portions of any wall or walls of building “A” from which lines drawn
perpendicular to the face of such wall or walls will intersect any wall of
building “B”;
               c.   “LB” means the total length of building “B” which, for the
purposes of this formula, is defined as the maximum length of the portion or
portions of any wall or wall of building “B” from which lines drawn
perpendicular to the face of such walls or walls will intersect any wall of
building “A”;
               d.   “HA” means the height of building “A”;
               e.   “HB” means the height of building “B”; and
               f.   “F” means the divisor factor. “F” is “4" provided, however,
the minimum distance between any main wall of any other building shall not be
less 20 feet.
         (d)   Distance in angular arrangements.
            1.   Distance in angular arrangements of 30 degrees to 60 degrees,
such minimum distances are determined by the formula:
               Minimum Distance = 2LB + HA + HB - k
                           F
            2.   The elements of the formula are defined in division (F)(2)(c)
above. “K” in the formula varies as the sin of 2n where “n” is the angle from
building “B” to building “A” or extensions thereof.
 
Where “n” 30 to 34 degrees - k=10 ft.
             35 to 39 degrees - k=20 ft.
             40 to 50 degrees - k=25 ft.
             51 to 55 degrees - k=20 ft.
             56 to 60 degrees - k=10 ft.
 
         (e)   Distance between walls of court arrangements. Such minimum
distances shall be determined by applying the formula set forth in division (F)
(2)(c) above, to each set of facing walls. In arrangements of parallel walls
with offset sections, the distance between the corresponding parallel walls
shall be determined by said formula. The elements of the formula are
illustrated on Figure 1.
         (f)   Distance between non-overlapping walls.
            1.   Where walls of two buildings do not directly face each other
or do not overlap - that is where lines drawn perpendicular from the face of
any wall or any one building will not intersect the face of any wall of another
building - the minimum horizontal distance between such buildings shall be not
less than one-half of the combined height of the two buildings. Such minimum
distances shall be determined by the formula:
               Minimum Distance = HA + HB
         (g)   Distance between building and boundary lines.
            1.   Distance between building and boundary lines of a multifamily
building, or part thereof, in a single development or group development and any
side or rear lot line of the parcel of a development area shall vary in direct
relation to the length and height of the building. Such minimum distance shall
be as determined by the formula:
               Minimum Distance = 2(LL) + HA
               a.   “Minimum distance” means the minimum required horizontal
distance between any wall of a building and the nearest side or rear lot line,
or boundaries of the parcel or development area;
               b.   “LL” means the maximum length of the side or rear lot which
can be intersected by lines drawn perpendicular from the face or faces of any
wall or walls of the building; and
               c.   “HA” means the height of the building “A”.
            3.   Where any multifamily development abuts a one- or two-family
residential district along any rear property line, the minimum distance from
any property line in such districts and any main building shall be not less
than the height of the main building.
         (h)   Townhouse dimensions. A unit of a townhouse shall be not less
than 20 feet in width and any main, or longitudinal, wall of a sequence of
townhouse units shall not exceed 130 feet in length without a 90 degree offset
of at least ten feet, and the aggregate length of any wall, including its
offsets, shall not exceed 170 feet in length.
         (i)   Use and design of yards. The required yards, set forth in this
division (F) shall be landscaped and may be used for pedestrian walks and
passive recreation areas. If, however, yards between buildings are used for
parking areas, driveways or playgrounds, the distances between buildings shall
be increased by the dimensions of such intermediary facilities.
         (j)   Development plans for multifamily dwellings. Development plans
for multifamily dwellings shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
their review and recommendations. Until found to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and approved by the Planning Commission, building permits shall
not be issued.
   (G)   Required yards to be maintained. The required yards surrounding an
existing building shall not be separated in ownership from that portion of the
lot upon which the building is located, and no part shall be considered as
providing a required yard for any other existing building on the same or on an
adjacent lot. A yard shall not be reduced to less than the required dimensions
for the district in which it is located by enlarging an existing building, and
yard of less than the required dimensions shall not be further reduced in any
manner. Every required yard shall be open and unobstructed from the ground
upward except for accessory buildings as set forth in division (M) below and
projections into yards as set forth in division (N) below.
   (H)   Front yards of partially built-up blocks. Where a building line has
not been established, and where 50% or more of the aggregate street frontage
between two successive intersecting streets is occupied by buildings of the
type and use permitted in the district before the effective date of this
chapter, or any amendments thereto, the minimum front yard for new buildings
shall be the average setback distance of existing buildings located within 100
feet on either side of a given lot, provided, however, the depth of the front
yard resulting therefrom shall be not less than one-half of the dimensions
specified in division (E) above.
   (I)   Side yards of insufficient width. Where side yards are narrower than
required for the district in which the building and lot are located and which
was owned separately from all other tracts of land on the effective date of
this chapter or any amendment thereto, and is still so owned, the building may
be maintained or altered but may not be enlarged in width unless the total
width of the side yards complies with the regulations of this chapter.
   (J)   Yards on corner lots. The depth of the front yard on a corner lot
shall be not less than the required setback from the front lot line, and the
width of the side yard on the side street shall be not less than one-half of
the depth of the front yard required for the adjoining lot which abuts said
side street, unless shown otherwise on zone map.
   (K)   Yards for irregular lots.
      (1)   Generally. The specific yard regulations set forth in this division
(K) may be modified by the Board of Zoning Appeals in accordance with standards
established in §
155.52 where the regulations cannot be complied with reasonably as a result of
irregular shape of lot or for topographical reasons.
      (2)   Yards for institutions in residential area. Front yards shall be
provided for institutional buildings permitted in certain residential districts
in accordance with requirements for residential buildings as set forth in
division (E) above or as set forth on the zone map. Side and rear yards shall
be determined by the Planning Commission for each institution, however, in
general, the yards shall be not less than, or the building coverage of the lot
shall not exceed, the requirements set forth in the following schedule:
 
Maximum Land Coverage
Main Building and Uses             Side and Rear Footage By Building (Percent)
Public schools, parochial schools, 20                    25
except nursery schools
Churches, home for aging           20                    50
Hospitals, clinics, home for       30                    50
children
Libraries and other public         30                    50
buildings
 
   (M)   Yards for accessory buildings and uses.
      (1)   Any accessory use permitted in a residential district may either
occupy a part of the main building, occupy a separate accessory building or
constitute an accessory land use.
      (2)   Any accessory building shall be located not less than ten feet from
any dwelling on an adjacent residential lot and shall not project into a front
or a side yard. An accessory building, may however, be located in a rear yard
but not less than five feet from a rear or side lot line. On corner lots, an
accessory building shall be set back from the side street line not less than
required for the adjacent main building of the abutting lot.
   (N)   Projections into yards. A projection is that part or feature of a
building which extends or projects outside of the enclosing walls. It is
intended that certain building features may project into required yards but
they shall be regulated so as not to substantially interfere with the reception
of sun, light, air and the use of adjacent lots as follows:
      (1)   Architectural feature, a belt course, balcony, cornice, gutter or
chimney may project into a front and side yard for a distance of six feet
provided no part is less than three feet to any side lot line;
      (2)   Entrance feature, an open platform, landing, steps, terrace or
other feature not extending above the first floor level of a building may
extend six feet into a front yard and three feet into a side yard;
      (3)   Enclosed shelters an enclosed entry or porch shall not project into
any required yard area;
      (4)   Unenclosed shelters, an entrance hood or open but roofed porch may
project six feet into a front yard and three feet into a side yard; and
      (5)   Driveways and sidewalks, or other similar structures may project no
closer than a distance of two feet minimum from side or rear lot lines.
   (O)   Buildings permitted on zoning lot.
      (1)   There will not be more than one single-family or one two-family
dwelling permitted on a zoning lot; there may be more than one multifamily
building on a zoning lot. In addition, there may be no more than two accessory
buildings on the same R-1 or R-2 zoning lot when a main building is present,
provided such accessory buildings are constructed subsequent to the main
building. No more than one accessory building per living unit exceeding four
feet in height, however, shall be permitted on any zoning lot in a R-
3 District.
      (2)   No single-family or two-family dwelling shall be located to the
rear of any building on the same lot or on another lot which does not have the
required frontage on a dedicated street; however, a group of multifamily
buildings may be arranged in groups and not directly front on a dedicated
street.
   (P)   Required lot area to be maintained.
      (1)   A parcel of land may be subdivided into two or more parcels,
provided all lots resulting from such division shall conform to all the lot
area and width regulations of the district in which it is located. A lot of
record which conformed to the provisions of this chapter and which was owned
separately from adjoining lots on the effective day of this chapter or an
amendment thereafter which affected its conformity, shall not be reduced in any
manner which would make it nonconforming.
      (2)   The lot area or any part thereof required for a dwelling or other
use shall not be considered as providing any part of the required lot area for
another dwelling or use.
   (Q)   Lots of record of insufficient area. A lot of record which does not
comply with the area of lot width regulations of the district in which it is
located on the effective date of this chapter or any amendment thereto which
made it nonconforming, may be used as follows:
      (1)   If occupied by a building, such building may be maintained,
repaired or altered, provided, however, the building may not be enlarged in
floor area unless the depth of front yard, total width of side yards and the
rear yard regulations are complied with; and
      (2)   If vacant, the lot may be used provided that:
         (a)   No adjoining vacant lot or parcel of land was owned by the same
owner on the effective date of this chapter;
         (b)   Not owning adjoining land, other vacant land cannot be equitably
acquired adjoining the lot; and
         (c)   All other regulations of this chapter, except the lot area and
lot width regulations, shall be complied with.
   (R)   Dwelling unit area requirements.
      (1)   Generally. In order to provide healthful living conditions and to
preserve the character of the neighborhood, dwellings shall be erected,
altered, moved, maintained or occupied only in accordance with the following
standards establishing minimum areas of dwelling units.
      (2)   Area of a dwelling unit.
         (a)   Area of a dwelling unit shall be the sum of the gross floor
areas above the basement level, and not more than three feet below finished
grade; rooms above the first floor may be included which are directly connected
by a permanent stairs and hall, and spaces under pitched roofs having a minimum
knee wall height of four feet if one-half of the room area has a minimum
ceiling height of seven feet.
         (b)   The area for frame buildings shall be measured from the exterior
face of the enclosed walls at the respective floor line. For a brick veneer
building, no more than four inches of exterior wall thickness may be included
in the area calculation. For two-family and multifamily dwellings, where
applicable, measurements will be made to the centerline of party walls. All
areas within garages and porches, public halls and general storage rooms in
multifamily dwellings shall be excluded in this measurement.
         (c)   Minimum area of a dwelling unit shall be not less than
established in the following schedule:
              1 Story             1-1/2 Story         2 Story
Dwelling Type With Basmt. Without With Basmt. Without With Basmt. Without
                          Basmt.              Basmt.              Basmt.
                             1 Story        1-1/2 Story    2 Story
Dwelling Type                With   Without With   Without With Basmt. Without
                             Basmt. Basmt.  Basmt. Basmt.              Basmt.
One-family dwelling
   Ground floor area (sq. 900    1,000   780    880     600         700
ft.)
   Total floor area (sq.  900    1,000   930    1,030   1,200       1,300
ft.)
Two-family dwelling
   Ground floor area      750    850     –    –     450         500
   Total floor area       750    850     –    –     1,900       1,000
Townhouse
   Ground floor area      750    850     –    –     450         550
   Total floor area       750    850     –    –     900         1,000
 
Apartment       Minimum Area per Apartment Unit (sq. ft.)
No bedroom unit 500
1 bedroom unit  600
2 bedroom unit  750
 
   (S)   Location of utilities.
      (1)   Public utility uses and distributing equipment for a public
utility, due to its essential nature, shall be permitted in any zoning
district. However, where such public utility uses are proposed to be located
across, or on unplatted lands, such uses shall be subject to the issuance of
conditional use permits in accordance with the provisions of §
155.50(G).
      (2)   The regulations herein governing lot size shall not apply to any
lot designed or intended for a public utility and public service use when the
area involved is deemed appropriate for such use by the Planning Commission.
   (T)   Open storage. Boats, tractors, motor homes, trailer, snow plows and
other equipment and supplies shall be permitted on a residential lot provided
the item is parked in such a way as to not encroach the road right-of-way and
is set back an additional ten feet from road right-of-way.
   (U)   Flood control areas.
      (1)   No building or structure shall be erected within any area herein
described as a drainage course. For the purpose of this chapter, a drainage
course shall include any area such as drainage ways, channels, streams and
creeks, designated as such on geodetic topographic maps, village topographic
maps and shall further include any area designed or intended for use in
drainage purposes as shown in a recorded subdivision.
      (2)   No filling of land or excavation of land shall be permitted within
a drainage course, or on any lands within 100 feet, or more than 100 feet when
so designated on the zone map, of the centerline of such drainage course,
except upon issuance of a certificate by the Engineer that such filling will
not obstruct the flow of water or otherwise reduce the water carrying capacity
of such drainage course, or impair the design and character of such drainage
course.
   (V)   Temporary buildings and enclosures.
      (1)   Permitted buildings and uses. Temporary structures may be permitted
in any residential district if such structures are deemed necessary for
construction operations of the dwellings and accessory buildings of the area
for which a building permit has been issued, provided:
         (a)   Such structures shall be limited to offices, yards and buildings
for the storage of lumber, equipment and other building material, workshops for
prefabricating building components; and
         (b)   The operations and activities carried on within such structures
shall not adversely affect the use of nearby dwellings by reason of noises,
smoke, dust, odors, fumes, vibrations, electrical disturbances or flare to a
greater extent than normal in a residential district that is being developed.
      (2)   Removal of structures. All temporary structures shall be removed
within 30 days after the completion of work on the premises for which a permit
has been issued or if construction is not pursued diligently.
   (W)   Parking. Parking in any residential district shall be in accordance
with regulations set forth in §
155.30.
   (X)   Signs. Signs in any residential district shall be designed, erected,
altered, moved and maintained in whole or in part, in accordance with
regulations set forth in §
155.31.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 975-88, passed 9-19-1988; Ord. 1544-18,
passed 3-19-2018; Ord. 1588-20, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 155.16 MOBILE HOME DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. Mobile home districts and their regulations are established
herein in order to achieve, among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To regulate the location of mobile homes in relation to the land in
order to obtain proper light, air, privacy and usable open spaces;
      (2)   To regulate the density and distribution of population to avoid
congestion and to maintain adequate services;
      (3)   To provide for the proper location of community shopping facilities
so as to increase the general convenience, safety and amenities;
      (4)   To provide protection from noxious fumes, odors, dust, excessive
noises, invasion of abnormal vehicular traffic and other objectionable
influences; and
      (5)   To protect the desirable characteristics of existing residential
development, the promotion of stability and the most desirable and beneficial
use of the land.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Main buildings, accessory buildings and land shall be
used and buildings shall be erected, altered, moved and maintained only for the
uses permitted in any R-1 Residential District. Mobile homes may be occupied
and the use of mobile home spaces permitted only in accordance with this
section and subject to the issuance of conditional use permits in accordance
with provisions of §
155.50(G).
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which does not have a flush toilet
and a bath or shower.
      INDEPENDENT MOBILE HOME. A mobile home which has a flush toilet and a
bath or shower;
      MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or similar portable structure having no
foundation other than wheels, jacks, supporting walls or skirting and so
designed or constructed as to permit occupancy for dwelling or sleeping
purposes.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any lot or ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
      MOBILE HOME SPACE. A lot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of one mobile home.
      NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL BARRIER. Any river, pond, canal, railroad, levee,
embankment, fence of hedge.
      PARK. Mobile home park.
   (D)   Location. Each boundary of the park must be at least 200 feet from any
permanent residential building located outside the park, unless separated
therefrom by a natural or artificial barrier, or unless a majority of the
property owners according to area within said 200 feet, consent in writing to
the establishment of the park.
   (E)   Area and yard regulations. Mobile homes shall be so harbored on each
space that there shall be at least a 15-foot clearance between mobile homes;
provided, however, that with respect to mobile homes parked end-to-end, the
end-to-end clearance may be less than 15 feet but shall not be less than ten
feet. No mobile home shall be located closer than ten feet from any building
within the park or from any property line bounding the park.
   (F)   Water supply. An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and
domestic purposes shall be supplied by pipes to all buildings and mobile home
spaces within the park to meet the requirements of the park. Each mobile home
space shall be provided with a cold water tap at least four inches above the
ground. An adequate supply of hot water shall be provided at all times in the
service buildings for all bathing, washing, cleansing and laundry facilities.
   (G)   Sanitary facilities. Each park accommodating dependent mobile homes
shall be provided with toilets, baths or showers, slop sinks and other sanitary
facilities which shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   Toilet facilities for males shall consist of not less than one
flush toilet and one urinal for the first 15 dependent mobile homes or any less
thereof, and for dependent mobile homes in excess of 15, not less than one
additional flush toilet and one additional urinal for every 15 additional
dependent mobile homes or fractional number thereof.
      (2)   Toilet facilities for females shall consist of not less than one
flush toilet for the first ten dependent mobile homes or any less number
thereof, and for dependent mobile homes in excess of ten, not less than one
additional flush toilet for every ten additional dependent mobile homes or
fractional number thereof.
      (3)   Each sex shall be provided with not less than one lavatory and one
shower or bath tub with individual dressing accommodations for the first ten
dependent mobile homes or any less number thereof, additional lavatory and one
additional shower or bath tub with individual dressing accommodations for every
ten additional dependent mobile homes or fractional number thereof.
      (4)   Each toilet and each shower or bathtub with individual dressing
accommodations, for which provision is made in this division (G) shall be in a
private compartment or stall.
      (5)   The toilet and other sanitary facilities for males and females
shall be either in separate buildings or shall be separated, if the same
building, by a soundproof wall.
      (6)   There shall be provided in a separate compartment or stall not less
than one flush toilet bowl receptacle for emptying bed pans or other containers
of human excreta and an adequate supply of hot running water for cleansing such
bed pans or containers.
   (H)   Service buildings.
      (1)   Service buildings housing sanitation and laundry facilities, or any
of such facilities, shall be permanent structures complying with all applicable
ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical installations and
plumbing and sanitation systems.
      (2)   The service buildings shall be well lighted at all times of the day
and night, shall be well ventilated with screened openings, shall be
constructed of such moisture-proof material, including painted woodwork, as
shall permit repeated cleaning and washing, and shall be maintained at a
temperature of at least 68°F during the period from October 1 to May 1. The
floors of the service buildings shall be of water impervious material.
      (3)   Service buildings housing sanitation facilities shall be located no
closer than 20 feet or farther than 200 feet from any mobile home space upon
which a dependent mobile home is harbored.
      (4)   All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be
maintained in a clean, pleasant condition and kept free of any condition that
will menace the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a nuisance.
   (I)   Sewage and refuse disposal.
      (1)   Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets, urinals, lavatories,
slop sinks and laundries in service and other buildings within the park shall
be discharged into a public sewer system in compliance with applicable
ordinances.
      (2)   Each mobile home space shall be provided with a trapped sewer at
least four inches in diameter, which shall be connected to receive the waste
from the shower, bath tub, flush toilet, lavatory and kitchen sink of the
mobile home harbored in such space and having any or all of such facilities.
The trapped sewer in each space shall be connected to discharge the mobile home
waste into a public sewer system in compliance with applicable ordinances.
   (J)   Garbage receptacles. Metal garbage cans with tight-fitting covers
shall be provided in quantities adequate to permit disposal of all garbage and
rubbish. Garbage cans shall be located not farther than 200 feet from any
mobile home space. The cans shall be kept in sanitary condition at all times.
Garbage and rubbish shall be collected and disposed of as frequently as may be
necessary to ensure that the garbage cans shall not overflow.
   (K)   Fire protection. Every park shall be equipped at all times with fire
extinguishing equipment in good working order, of such type, size and number
and so located within the park as to satisfy applicable regulations and codes
of the village, county and state. No open fires shall be permitted at any place
which may endanger life or property. No fires shall be left unattended at any
time.
   (L)   Parking. Parking in any mobile home district shall be in accordance
with regulations set forth in §
155.30.
   (M)   Signs. Signs in any mobile home district shall be designed, erected,
altered, moved and maintained in whole or in part, in accordance with
regulations set forth in §
155.31.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970)
§ 155.17 BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. Business districts and their regulations are established
herein in order to achieve, among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide in appropriate and convenient locations, zoning
districts of sufficient size for the exchange of goods and services and other
business activities;
      (2)   To provide Convenience Business Districts to serve the needs for
convenience goods in outlying areas;
      (3)   To provide General Business Districts to serve the needs for
convenience goods in proximity to the immediate neighborhood which do not
attract large volumes of traffic;
      (4)   To provide Central Business Districts which require larger land
areas, which may be open in evenings and which generate large volumes of
traffic serving the needs for shopping and convenience goods and services of
the entire community;
      (5)   To establish criteria and procedures for planned business areas so
they may be coordinated with surrounding developments;
      (6)   To protect adjacent residential neighborhoods by regulating the
types and spacing of business uses, particularly at the common boundaries,
which would create hazards, noise, odors or other objectionable influences; and
      (7)   To promote the most desirable land use and traffic patterns in the
community.
   (B)   Convenience Business District use regulations (B-1). Buildings and
land shall be used, and buildings shall be designed, erected, altered, moved or
maintained in whole or in part in any local business district only for the uses
set forth in the following regulations.
      (1)   Main buildings and uses permitted.
         (a)   Building and uses of the type permitted and as regulated in the
nearest adjacent residential district;
         (b)   Retail stores and services conducted wholly within enclosed
buildings and devoted to supplying neighborhood needs to the following limited
extent:
            1.   The sale of baked goods, confectionery, groceries, meats,
fruits, vegetables, dairy products, packaged beverages;
            2.   The sale, serving and consumption of food, ice cream and
beverages;
            3.   The sale of drugs, gifts, antique and art goods, flowers,
periodicals, musical instruments and supplies, sporting and athletic goods,
provided no loudspeakers broadcast onto the streets;
            4.   Personal services such as beauty and barber shops, interior
decorating; and
            5.   Laundry agencies and laundromat; tailor, pressing and dry
cleaning shops in which only nonexplosive and nonflammable solvents are used;
provided that no work shall be done on the premises for retail outlets
elsewhere.
      (2)   Similar main uses permitted. Any other neighborhood retail store,
shop or service not listed above or in any subsequent use classification, and
determined as similar by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
standards set forth in §
155.50(H). Main uses enumerated in a General Business District except motels,
assembly halls, mortuaries, bus passenger stations and hotels may be permitted
in a Local Business District provided a conditional use permit is granted in
accordance with the standards of §
155.50(G).
      (3)   Accessory uses permitted. Any accessory use such as storage of
goods or processing operations which are clearly incidental to conducting a
retail business, office or service establishment, which is permitted as a main
use, provided such a use has no injurious effect on adjoining residential
district.
   (C)   General Business District use regulations (B-2). Buildings and land
shall be used, and buildings shall be designed, erected, altered, moved or
maintained in whole or in part in any General Business District only for the
uses set forth in the following regulations:
      (1)   Main buildings and uses permitted.
         (a)   Building and uses of the type permitted and as regulated in the
nearest adjacent residential district;
         (b)   Office buildings and offices professional, financial,
governmental, public utility, sales, executive and administrative;
         (c)   Retail stores and services conducted wholly within enclosed
buildings and devoted to supplying neighborhood needs to the following limited
extent:
            1.   The sale of baked goods, confectionery, groceries, meats,
fruits, vegetables, dairy products, packaged beverages;
            2.   The sale, serving and consumption of food, ice cream and
beverages;
            3.   The sale of drugs, gifts, antique and art goods, flowers,
periodicals, musical instruments and supplies, sporting and athletic goods,
provided no loudspeakers broadcast onto the streets;
            4.   The sale of wearing apparel, shoes, hats, clothing, fabrics;
            5.   The sale of hardware, tools, paint, garden supplies and
household appliances;
            6.   Personal services, such as beauty and barbershops, interior
decorating;
            7.   Laundry agencies and laundromat; tailor, pressing and dry
cleaning shops in which only nonexplosive and nonflammable solvents are used;
provided that no work shall be done on the premises for retail outlets
elsewhere;
            8.   Repair services, such as shoe and hat, radio and television,
household appliances; and
            9.   Service stations and automotive services limited to
lubrication and minor repairing to tires, batteries, ignition, and cooling
system may be permitted provided a conditional use permit is granted in
accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.50(G).
      (2)   Retail sales in open yards. Retail sales in open yards shall be
permitted to the following limited extent: garden equipment and supplies,
garden furniture, nursery stock, and monuments may be sold on an open lot
provided the operation is in connection with an established related business
conducted within a store building or retail greenhouse, not more than 150 feet
therefrom and provided the sales in open yards comply with the setbacks
established in division (G) below.
      (3)   Similar main uses permitted. Any other neighborhood retail store,
shop or service not listed above or in any subsequent use classification, and
determined as similar by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
standards set forth in §
155.50(H). Main uses enumerated in a Central Business District except motels,
assembly halls, mortuaries, bus passenger stations and hotels may be permitted
in a General Business District provided a conditional use permit is granted in
accordance with the standards of §
155.50(G).
      (4)   Accessory uses permitted. Any accessory use such as storage of
goods or processing operations which are clearly incidental to conducting a
retail business, office or service establishment, which is permitted as a main
use, provided such a use has no injurious effect on adjoining residential
district.
   (D)   Central Business District use regulations (B-3). Buildings and land
shall be used, and buildings shall be designed, erected, altered, moved or
maintained in whole or in part of any Central Business District only for the
uses set forth in the following regulations:
      (1)   Main buildings and uses permitted.
         (a)   Offices, stores, services, dwellings and other use
classifications as permitted in any Convenience or General Business District;
         (b)   Motels and mortuaries;
         (c)   Additional retail business stores and services conducted wholly
within enclosed buildings and devoted to supplying the retail business needs of
the community to the following extent:
            1.   The sale of all food, frozen food lockers;
            2.   The sale and serving of all beverages, and eating places of
all types including dancing and live entertainment; places selling and serving
alcoholic beverages, state liquor stores, drive-in establishments if a
conditional use permit is granted by the Planning Commission in accordance with
the standards set forth in §
155.50(G);
            3.   The sale of all general merchandise, dry goods, variety and
department stores;
            4.   The sale of all hardware, appliances, china, furniture, floor
and wall covering, business equipment, music, radio and television provided no
loud speakers broadcast onto the streets;
            5.   The sale of bicycles, motorcycles, boats, outboard motors,
sport and athletic equipment, pet shops;
            6.   Wholesale offices and show rooms with storage limited to
samples;
            7.   Automotive sales and services; repair and service garages and
used automotive sales lots only if accessory and immediately adjacent to
buildings used for the sale of new motor vehicles;
            8.   All personal service establishments without limitations on the
number of persons engaged in such work;
            9.   Photographic developing, blue printing, letters, job and
newspaper printing, radio or television stations, transmitting towers,
telephone exchanges and transformer stations;
            10.   Bus passenger stations, tax stations;
            11.   Hotels; and
            12.   Amusement and recreation services such as assembly and
meeting halls, billiard halls, bowling alleys, dance halls, indoor theaters,
ice and roller skating rinks, and other social, fraternal, sport or
recreational establishments, provided they are conducted within an enclosed
building, and sufficiently sound-insulated to confine the noise to the
premises.
      (2)   Retail sales in open yards. Retail sales in open yards shall be
permitted to the following extent: automotive sales of new and used motor
vehicles, provided the operation is in connection with a new-car sales agency
located on an immediately adjacent lot, that all vehicles and advertising be
located behind a concrete curb or pre-cast barrier at least ten feet from the
front lot line, and provided the front yard between the aforesaid barrier, and
front lot line is landscaped and maintained attractively.
      (3)   Similar main uses permitted. Any other general business store, shop
or service not listed above or in any subsequent use classification and
determined as similar by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
standards set forth in §
155.50(H).
      (4)   Accessory uses permitted. Any accessory use such as storage of
goods or processing operations which are clearly incidental to conducting a
retail business, office or service establishment or other permitted main use,
shall be permitted provided such an accessory use has no injurious effect on
the adjoining residential districts.
      (5)   Ground floors. No persons shall use the ground floor of buildings
for habitation or as a dwelling whether that person(s) rent(s) or own(s) the
property in the following area: any building which has frontage on the
following sections of streets within the village and located within the Central
Business District surrounding and encompassing the Village Square: the three
blocks of Jackson Street and the three blocks of Perry Street which lie between
Cherry Street to the West and Water Street to the East. Also the three blocks
of Williams Street and the three blocks of Main Street which lie between
Harrison Street to the South and Caroline Street to the North. See “Exhibit A”
attached hereto to Ord. 1593-20 and made a part hereof for a drawing of the
area hereinabove described, and said area is hereinafter described as the
“Downtown Central Business District” for purposes of this division (D)(5).
   (E)   Area regulations. In any business districts, buildings and land shall
be used, and buildings shall be designed, erected, altered, moved or maintained
in whole or in part only in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Main Use        Business District Minimum Lot Area        Minimum Lot Width
                                  In accordance with      In accordance with
Dwelling        All               adjacent residential    adjacent residential
                                  district                district
Motel           General Business  400 sq. ft./rental unit 150 ft.
Service station All               15,000 sq. ft.          100 ft.
 
   (F)   Land coverage.
      (1)   (a)   In any Convenience Business District, notwithstanding any
other provisions of this zoning code, the land area occupied by main and
accessory buildings shall not exceed 50% of the total area of the parcel being
developed.
         (b)   In any General or Central Business District, such percentage of
building coverage may be increased in the Planning Commission finds that by
providing the required number of accessory parking spaces on an adjacent parcel
within a walking distance of 250 feet from the main building, the off-street
parking and loading facilities requirements set forth in §
155.30 will be satisfied.
      (2)   Whenever the required accessory off-street parking facilities are
proposed to be located on a parcel other than the one occupied by the main
building served, the Planning Commission may require a copy of the agreements
covering such an arrangement as set forth in §
155.30.
   (G)   Yard regulations. In any business district, buildings and land shall
be used, and buildings shall be designed, erected, altered, moved or maintained
in whole or in part only in accordance with the following schedule and
regulations:
      (1)   Yards for dwellings. The yard requirements established for the
adjacent residential districts shall apply to the buildings, or the parts
thereof, used for dwelling purposes; however, dwellings which are nonconforming
in regard to the area of yard regulations on the effective date of this
chapter, may be continued to be used in accordance with the provisions of §
155.32;
      (2)   Schedule of yards and setbacks for business uses. In any business
district the yards shall be not less than set forth in the following schedule:
                   Side Yard                   Rear Yard
Use Front Yard and Abutting    Abutting Non-   Abutting        Abutting Non-
    Setback (ft.)  Resident.   Resident. Dist. Resident. Dist. Resident. Dist.
                   Dist. (ft.) (ft.)           (ft.)           (ft.)
              Front Yard   Side Yard                 Rear Yard
Use           and Setback  Abutting    Abutting Non- Abutting    Abutting Non-
              (ft.)        Resident.   Resident.     Resident.   Resident.
                           Dist. (ft.) Dist. (ft.)   Dist. (ft.) Dist. (ft.)
District: Convenience Business
                                       None or
Stores and    20           10          minimum 6 ft. 10          10
services                               between
                                       buildings
Parking areas 10           5           –           5           –
District: General Business
Offices,                               None or
stores and    15           10          minimum 6 ft. 10          10
services                               between
                                       buildings
Parking areas 10           5           –           5           –
District: Central Business
Offices,
stores,                                None or
services,     10           15          minimum 6 ft. 20          20
mortuaries,                            between
amusement and                          buildings
recreation
Sale in open  10           5           –           5           –
yards
Parking areas 5            5           –           5           –
 
      (3)   Supplementary yard regulations. Yards may be used for off-street
parking, loading, traffic circulation, illumination, landscaping and signs as
regulated in other sections of this chapter.
         (a)   Front yards. Front yards for buildings and uses shall not be
less than set forth in division (F) above, and no structure shall be erected in
front of such lines unless shown otherwise on the zone map or specifically
modified in supplementary regulations.
            1.   Wherever parking areas are proposed in front yards, the
Planning Commission may require as a condition of approval, that a front yard
depth greater than set forth above is deemed proper to relate the proposed
structures to surrounding developments. If parking or sales are permitted in
front yards, a concrete curb or pre-cast barrier shall be erected along the
parking area or sales area, and the front yard between such line and the public
right-of-way shall be landscaped and maintained attractively.
            2.   Gasoline pumps, if constructed and operated as a part of a
service station or garage, may, however, be erected in front of the established
building line, but not less than ten feet from the front lot line. All
driveways, platforms and curbs of the service stations, whether located on a
village street, county road or state highway, shall be designed in accordance
with the latest revision of the “Regulations Governing Ingress and Egress gas
Gasoline Service Stations Fronting on all Highways under State Jurisdiction in
Ohio” adopted by the Ohio Department of Highways;
         (b)   Side yards. Whenever a business building is located adjacent to
another business building having one or more party walls and a common roof with
one or more similar buildings, but individually owned, there shall either be no
side yards provided or the buildings shall be separated not less than six feet
from the nearest business building;
         (c)   Yard screening and landscaping. Wherever a business building is
located on a lot which adjoins a residential district, a side or rear yard of
not less than set forth in division (F) above shall be provided, on the
business lot, and the Planning Commission may require a wall or fence inside
the Business District boundary line to shield adjacent residential areas from
parking lot illumination, headlights, fumes, heat, blowing papers and dust, and
to reduce the visual encroachment of business buildings, signs and activity.
The area between such wall or fence and the property line shall be treated with
plantings to form a permanent landscaped area.
   (H)   Height regulations. The height of any main or accessory building in
any Convenience or General Business District shall not exceed 35 feet. The
height of any main or accessory building in any Central Business District shall
not exceed 50 feet.
   (I)   Parking. Parking in any business district shall be in accordance with
the regulations as set forth in §
155.30.
   (J)   Sign regulations. Signs in any business district shall be designed,
erected, altered, moved or maintained in whole or in part, in accordance with
the regulations as set forth in §
155.31.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 1593-20, passed - -2020)
§ 155.18 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. Light and Heavy Industrial Districts and their regulations are
established herein in order to achieve, among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide an appropriate and convenient districts sufficient areas
for carrying on research, providing commercial services, manufacturing and
distributing goods to serve the community, to promote employment and to
strengthen the economy of the community;
      (2)   To provide Light Industrial Districts in appropriate and convenient
areas for business, contracting, storage, distribution and transportation
services, and related types of minor production processes;
      (3)   To provide Heavy Industrial Districts for those products and
processes which normally require a large amount of motor vehicle trucking for
transportation of the raw materials and finished products, but in which dust,
smoke, fumes, glare, odors or other objectionable influences can be controlled;
      (4)   To improve the general environment by prohibiting dwellings,
institutions and public facilities in the industrial districts, and by so
doing, make land more readily accessible for industry;
      (5)   To protect adjacent residential districts by restricting the types
of manufacturing uses in the surrounding areas to only those not creating
objectionable influences beyond their district boundaries and by separating and
insulating them from the most intense manufacturing activities; and
      (6)   To protect manufacturing and related development against congestion
insofar as is possible and appropriate in each area by limiting the bulk of
buildings in relation to the land and by providing off-street parking and
loading facilities.
   (B)   Light Industrial District use regulations (M-1). Buildings and land
shall be designed, erected, altered, moved and maintained, in whole or in part,
in any Light Industrial District only for the uses set forth in the following
regulations:
      (1)   Main uses permitted.
         (a)   Office uses as permitted in any Local Business District (all
other business, service, institutional and residential uses are not permitted);
         (b)   Laboratories: experimental, research and testing all types of
basic and applied research of product design and development, including, but
not limited to, the construction and operation of small-scale experimental and
pilot plant operation;
         (c)   Metal production: cutting, electric, gas and ultrasonic welding;
grinding, machining and finishing as incidental component operations, (but not
as a single operation) only in the production and/or assembly of products which
have a high value in relation to bulk, such as automotive and aircraft parts;
electrical and electronic equipment, motors, lamps, fixtures and clocks;
hardware, cutlery and kitchen utensils; musical and scientific instruments;
medical, orthopedic and photographic instruments and equipment; machine tools,
lathes, presses, stamping machines, woodworking machines and screw machines;
and sporting goods, athletic equipment, toys;
         (d)   Non-metal production: clothing and other textile products;
compounding of pharmaceutical products, cosmetics, drugs and toiletries;
plastic extrusion, molding and fabricating of panels, sheets, tubes and rods;
printing, publishing and engraving; fabrication of wood furniture, cabinets and
other wood products limited to sash, doors, cabinets, wall boards, partitions
and prefabricated house panels;
         (e)   Distribution operations: the storage and distribution of those
products which may be produced in any Light Industrial District, and the
storage and distribution of foods and beverages; postal stations; telephone
exchange; electrical distribution substation;
         (f)   Transportation services: the storage and maintenance of trucks
and loading, unloading equipment for the purpose of transporting materials and
equipment upon highways in general;
         (g)   General services, sales and storage establishments if conducted
wholly within enclosed buildings to the following extent:
            1.   Cleaning establishments - laundries, dyeing, dry cleaning,
carpet cleaning, towel supply and auto wash provided entire waiting line is
accommodated on lot;
            2.   Food and drink preparation - bakeries, canning, freezing,
refrigeration, roasting, ice manufacturing, bottling works and creameries;
            3.   Repair establishments - automobile engines, body and paint,
electrical and household appliances;
            4.   Repair and sale of buses, trucks and machinery;
            5.   Shops and offices of contractors - carpentry, electrical,
masonry, plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, painting, ornamental
iron, roofing and sheet metal; packing and crating, and monument works;
            6.   Storage yards and sale of new lumber and other building
materials; public utility materials and equipment;
            7.   Warehouses, other storage establishments, and parcel delivery
stations provided loading and off-loading facilities are entirely within an
enclosed building;
            8.   Veterinarians’ offices, animal hospitals, and kennels; and
            9.   Commercial greenhouses.
         (h)   The use of the sales and service of motorcycles.
      (2)   Similar main uses permitted. Any other office, research, service,
wholesale, storage and product use not listed above or in any industrial
district if considered and found similar by the Planning Commission according
to standards set forth in §
155.50(H); and
      (3)   Accessory uses permitted. Storage of materials and products within
buildings and processes clearly accessory to the main use, provided such a use
has no injurious effect on adjoining residential districts.
   (C)   Heavy Industrial District use regulations (M-2). Buildings and land
shall be used, and buildings shall be designed, erected, altered, moved and
maintained, in whole or in part, in any Heavy Industrial District only for the
uses set forth in the following regulations:
      (1)   Main uses permitted.
         (a)   Office, laboratories, production, distribution and service uses
permitted in any Light Industrial District (all other business, service,
institutional and residential uses are not permitted);
         (b)   Manufacturing processes conducted wholly within an enclosed
building; cutting, forging, stamping, casting, extrusion, drilling, machining,
welding, brazing, soldering, sawing, cleaning, shot and sand blasting,
grinding, enameling, painting, galvanizing finishing, heat treating and rust
proofing, as a component process in connection with the production and assembly
of products;
         (c)   Other industrial processes and uses including blending, mixing
and packaging of disinfectants, fertilizers, insecticides, fungicides, ink,
soap, detergents, and related household and industrial chemical compounds, but
excluding the preparation of any primary acids or other primary chemicals;
making of ferrous metal and metal alloy products from brass, bronze, pewter,
tin, lead or aluminum and the smelting or founding of such metals; and
         (d)   Bulk distribution station for gasoline and oil and reclamation
of ferrous metal products may be permitted provided a conditional use permit is
granted in accordance with the standards set forth in §
155.50(G).
      (2)   Similar main uses permitted. Any other manufacturing use not listed
above or in any industrial district if considered and found similar by the
Planning Commission according to standards as set forth in §
155.50(H).
      (3)   Accessory uses permitted.
         (a)   Storage. Storage of materials and products, and processes
clearly accessory to the main use;
         (b)   Off-street parking and loading facilities. Off-street parking
and loading facilities as required and set forth in §
155.30;
         (c)   Signs. Industrial, project, real estate, identification and
directional, as set forth in §
155.31;
         (d)   Area and land coverage regulations. No minimum lot area or lot
width is required in Light and Heavy Industrial Districts. Buildings, including
accessory buildings, shall not cover more than 50% of any lot in a Light
Industrial District and 75% of any lot in a Heavy Industrial District;
         (e)   Yard regulations. Yards shall be provided for every main and
accessory building in industrial districts in accordance with the following
schedule:
                   Side Yard                   Rear Yard
Use Front Yard and Abutting    Abutting Non-   Abutting        Abutting Non-
    Setback (ft.)  Resident.   Resident. Dist. Resident. Dist. Resident. Dist.
                   Dist. (ft.) (ft.)           (ft.)           (ft.)
              Front Yard   Side Yard                 Rear Yard
Use           and Setback  Abutting    Abutting Non- Abutting    Abutting Non-
              (ft.)        Resident.   Resident.     Resident.   Resident.
                           Dist. (ft.) Dist. (ft.)   Dist. (ft.) Dist. (ft.)
District: Light
Offices       20           20          10            10          10
Production    30           20          10            10          10
Distribution  30           20          10            10          10
District: Heavy Industrial
Offices       20           20          10            10          10
Manufacturing 30           30          20            20          20
 
         (f)   Height regulations.
            1.   Main and accessory buildings in any industrial district may be
erected to a height not exceeding the width of the side or rear yard adjoining
a one- or two-family residential district or mobile home district, or to a
height not exceeding two times the width of the side or rear yard adjoining a
multi-family residential or business district; and
            2.   Chimneys, spires, cupolas, domes, towers, flag poles, water
tanks, radio or television antennas, monuments and other mechanical
appurtenances located upon or constituted as an integral part of a main
building shall not exceed a height of 100 feet above finished grade.
         (g)   Performance standards. Any use established in any industrial
district after the effective date of this chapter shall comply with the
performance standards set forth hereinafter for the district in which such use
shall be located as a precedence to occupancy and use. Any use already
established in such districts shall not be altered, added to or otherwise
modified so as to conflict with, or further conflict with the performance
standards set forth hereinafter for the district in which such use is located
as a precedence to further use. Statements may be required by the Planning
Commission from the owner stating such uses comply or will comply. In case of
doubt, the village shall select and arrange for an independent survey by a
professional engineer qualified in the particular field and the costs for the
services shall be paid by the owner.
            1.   Enclosure. All permitted main and accessory uses and
operations except off-street parking shall be performed wholly within the
limits established in this section. All raw materials, finished products,
mobile and other equipment shall be stored within said units.
            2.   Fire and explosive hazards. The storage, handling and use of
flammable or explosive materials shall be permitted only in structures having
incombustible exterior walls, and all operations in connection therewith shall
be provided with adequate safety and protective devices against hazards of fire
and explosion as well as with adequate firefighting and suppression equipment
and devices standard to the operation involved.
            3.   Dust-smoke. The emission of smoke, soot, fly “ash” fumes, dust
and other types of air pollution borne by the wind shall be controlled so that
the rate of emission and quantity deposited at any other district shall not be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort, welfare or
adversely affect property values.
            4.   Odorous matter. The emission of odorous matter in such
quantities as to produce a public nuisance or hazard beyond the lot occupied by
the use shall not be permitted.
            5.   Toxic or noxious matter. The emission of toxic, noxious or
corrosive fumes or gases which would be demonstrably injurious to property,
vegetation, animals or human health at or beyond the boundaries of the lot
occupied by the use shall not be permitted.
            6.   Noise. The sound pressure level of any operation on a lot,
other than the operation of auto-calls, bells, motor vehicles, sirens or
whistles, shall not exceed the average intensity of the street traffic noise at
the nearest residential district, and no sound shall be objectionable due to
intermittence, beat, frequency or shrillness.
            7.   Vibration. Vibrations shall not be permitted beyond the lot
line occupied by the use which would be perceptible without the aid of
instruments.
            8.   Radioactive or electrical disturbances. Radioactive or
electrical disturbances shall not be created which would adversely affect any
form of life or equipment at or beyond the boundaries of the lot occupied by
the use.
            9.   Incineration facilities. Incineration facilities emitting
neither excessive smoke nor odor shall be provided, located within the main
building. No garbage, rubbish, waste matter or empty containers shall be
permitted outside of limits established in this section.
            10.   Waste materials. Liquid wastes shall not be discharged into
an open reservoir, stream or other open body of water or a sewer unless treated
or controlled so that the amount of solid substances, oils, grease, acids,
alkaline and other chemicals shall not exceed the amount permitted by other
codes of the state, county or village.
   (H)   Parking. Parking in any industrial districts shall be in accordance
with regulations set forth in §
155.30.
   (I)   Sign regulations. Signs in any industrial district shall be designed,
erected, altered, moved or maintained, in whole or in part, in accordance with
the regulations set forth in §
155.31.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 1415-11, passed 2-22-2011)
§ 155.19 FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. Flood Plain Districts and their regulations are established
herein in order to achieve, among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To minimize damage to property which may be caused by excess
amounts of water periodically inundating certain sections of the village, said
sections are located generally along natural watercourses, channels and
streams, and have been established on the map which is a part of this chapter;
and
      (2)   To minimize possible damage to properties located on adjacent lands
to those sections so indicated as flood plains.
   (B)   Permitted buildings and uses. No structure shall be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, moved or maintained for residential
purposes, nor shall any land be used for any purpose other than the following:
      (1)   Agricultural operations;
      (2)   Forestry;
      (3)   (a)   Summer houses, for seasonable occupancy only; and
         (b)   The period of occupancy shall commence no earlier than May 1 of
one year and may continue until no later than October 1 of that same year.
      (4)   Public and private park and recreation areas to include parks,
playgrounds, picnic grounds, golf courses, fishing and boating;
      (5)   Circus, carnival or similar transient and portable amusement
enterprises; and
      (6)   Extraction of minerals provided no storage of any kind is
maintained on the premises.
   (C)   Special permit.
      (1)   Prior to the construction of any structure or the use of any land
for the purposes mentioned in division (B) above, the applicant or applicants
shall apply to the Planning Commission for a special permit.
      (2)   The Planning Commission prior to issuing said permit shall
determine that such structure(s) or use will not create a flood hazard.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970)
REGULATIONS APPLYING TO ALL DISTRICTS
§ 155.30 PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. Off-street parking and loading requirements and regulations
are established in order to achieve, among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To relieve congestion so the streets can be utilized more fully for
movement of vehicular traffic;
      (2)   To promote the safety and convenience of pedestrians and shoppers
by locating parking areas so as to lessen car movements in the vicinity of
intensive pedestrian traffic;
      (3)   To protect adjoining residential neighborhoods from on-street
parking;
      (4)   To promote the general convenience, welfare and prosperity of
business, service, research, production and manufacturing developments which
depend upon off-street parking facilities; and
      (5)   To provide regulations and standards for the development of
accessory off-street parking and loading facilities in accordance with the
objectives of the zoning code.
   (B)   Scope of regulations. Accessory off-street parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as a condition precedent to occupancy of all
residential, institutional, business, office, research, production, service and
industrial uses in conformance with the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Whenever a building is constructed or a new use established;
      (2)   Whenever an existing building is altered and there is an increase
in the number of dwelling units, seating capacity, the floor areas of
buildings; and
      (3)   Whenever the use of an existing building is changed to a more
intensive use which requires more off-street parking facilities, except certain
nonconforming uses may continue as provided in §
155.32.
   (C)   Measurement of parking and loading units. For the purpose of
determining the off-street parking and loading facilities required as accessory
to a use, definitions and standards are established as follows.
      (1)   OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE shall mean an open or enclosed area
directly accessible from a public street for parking of automobiles of owners,
occupants, employees, customers or tenants of the main use. Each space shall be
directly accessible from a drive or aisle, not less than eight feet wide by 20
feet long, exclusive of all drives, aisles, ramps and turning space.
      (2)   FLOOR AREA USED IN DETERMINING PARKING REQUIREMENTS shall mean the
total area of all the floors of the building used by the principal activity as
specified in division (E) below, measured from the exterior faces of the
building. The areas used for storage or otherwise not occupied by people may be
excluded from the floor area calculation if approved by the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   GROSS FLOOR AREA USED IN DETERMINING LOADING REQUIREMENTS means the
total floor area used for the main and accessory activities, and storage areas
of the building served.
      (4)   SEATING CAPACITY means the number of seating units installed or
indicated on plans for places of assembly; where not indicated on plans it
shall be assumed that a seating unit will occupy six square feet of floor area
exclusive of all aisles.
      (5)   EMPLOYEES wherever the parking requirement is based on employees,
it shall mean the maximum number of employees on duty on the premises at one
time or on any two successive shifts, whichever is the greater.
      (6)   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE shall mean an open space or enclosed area
as part of a building, directly accessible to a public street and available
whenever needed for the loading or unloading of goods and products to the main
use.
   (D)   Application and design. Any application for a permit to construct a
building or parking area, or for a certificate of occupancy for a change in use
of land or a building shall include a site plan drawn to scale and fully
dimensioned, showing the proposed design of the parking area and loading
facilities to be provided in compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Schedule of parking requirements. Accessory off-street parking
facilities shall be provided in quantities not less than set forth in the
following schedule:
Building and Use Minimum Spaces Required
Building and Use                                                                 Minimum Spaces
                                                                                 Required
Business and Offices (including Home Professional Offices and Home Occupations)   
   Commercial recreation:                                                      
                                                                                 1 space per
      1. Open commercial amusement                                         500 sq. ft. of
                                                                                 lot area
      2. Bowling alleys                                                    5 spaces per
                                                                                 lane
                                                                                 20 spaces plus
   Mortuaries                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                 200 sq. ft.
   Offices:                                                                    
      1. Medical and dental offices                                        1 space per
                                                                                 200 sq. ft.
      2. Other offices: first floor and above                              1 space per
                                                                                 250 sq. ft.
   Places of assembly; theaters, halls, arenas                                1 space per 4
                                                                                 seats
   Retail stores, services and first floor offices:                            
      1. Less than 4,000 square feet per unit                              7 spaces per
                                                                                 1,000 sq. ft.
      2. 4,000 to 10,000 square feet per unit                              6 spaces per
                                                                                 1,000 sq. ft.
      3. 10,000 square feet or greater                                     5 spaces per
                                                                                 1,000 sq. ft.
Community Facilities                                                              
   Civic: libraries, museums, churches, club and community centers            1 space per
                                                                                 500 sq. ft. *
                                                                                 1 space per
   Educational: primary and secondary public; private schools                 1,000 sq. ft.
                                                                                 *
                                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                 300 sq. ft. of
                                                                                 floor area
   Governmental: municipal, county, state and federal buildings used by the   plus 1 space
public                                                                           for each 2
                                                                                 principally
                                                                                 administrative
                                                                                 functions
                                                                                 employees
   Health and welfare:                                                         
      1. General and special hospitals                                     1 space per
                                                                                 500 sq. ft.
      2. Institutions for children and for the aged, nursing homes, sanitar1 space per
                                                                                 1,000 sq. ft.
                                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                 200 sq. ft.
                                                                                 plus 1 space
      3. Medical clinics                                                   for each
                                                                                 doctor and 1
                                                                                 space for each
                                                                                 employee
   Places of assembly: auditoriums, lodge, halls, gymnasiums and stadiums     1 space per 4
                                                                                 seats
   Recreation:                                                                 
                                                                                 1 space per
                                                                                 4000 sq. ft.
                                                                                 of playfield
      1. Playfields                                                        area plus 1
                                                                                 space per 4
                                                                                 seats in
                                                                                 assembly room
                                                                                 1 space per 50
                                                                                 sq. ft. of
                                                                                 area devoted
      2. Skating rinks, swimming pools                                     to the
                                                                                 activity or 1
                                                                                 space per 2
                                                                                 members
                                                                                 1.5 spaces per
Mobile Homes                                                                     mobile home
                                                                                 space
Residential                                                                       
   Apartment                                                                  1.5 spaces per
                                                                                 dwelling unit
                                                                                 1.5 space per
   Hotels, motels, tourist home                                               mobile home
                                                                                 space
   One-family dwellings                                                       1 space per
                                                                                 dwelling unit
                                                                                 0.5 space per
   Rented rooms                                                               rented room
                                                                                 plus
                                                                                 1 space for
                                                                                resident
                                                                                 family
   Townhouse                                                                  1.5 spaces per
                                                                                 dwelling unit
   Two-family dwellings                                                       1 space per
                                                                                 dwelling unit
Service and Manufacturing                                                         
   Manufacturing plants                                                       1 space per 2
                                                                                 employees
   Wholesale, distribution, laboratories, general services, machine shops and 1 space per 2
similar establishments                                                           employees
                                                                                 For specific
                                                                                 buildings or
                                                                                 uses not
                                                                                 scheduled
                                                                                 above, the
                                                                                 Planning
                                                                                 Commission
                                                                                 shall apply
                                                                                 the unit of
Other Buildings or Uses                                                          measurement
                                                                                 set forth in
                                                                                 the above
                                                                                 scheduled
                                                                                 which is
                                                                                 deemed to be
                                                                                 most similar
                                                                                 to the
                                                                                 proposed
                                                                                 building or
                                                                                 use
*   For the assembly parts of the building, 1 space per each 4 seats, or 1 space for each 6
square feet of assembly floor area shall be added
 
   (F)   Modifications of requirements.
      (1)   Public facilities available. The required spaces as determined by
the above schedule and standards may be modified by the Planning Commission in
the village’s Central Business District area /where free parking areas or
publicly owned parking areas are readily accessible and where land is not
available for development of accessory off-street parking as required herein.
      (2)   Parking for single and mixes uses. A building occupied by one use
shall provide the off-street parking spaces as required for the specific use. A
building, or group of buildings, occupied by two or more uses, operating
normally during the same hours, shall provide spaces for not less than the sum
of the spaces required for each use. For a large unit development of business
uses, such as a shopping center, spaces shall be provided for the total area of
the building or buildings as set forth in division (E) above instead of the
requirements based on each separate use.
      (3)   Joint use of parking facilities. Churches, civic clubs, community
centers, auditoriums, lodge halls, gymnasiums and stadiums may make
arrangements with business establishments which normally have different hours
of operation for sharing up to, but not more than 50% of their requirements in
adjacent parking areas which are accessory to such business uses, provided
however, where there is a sharing of facilities by different owners or tenants,
there shall be an agreement covering a period of time as may be required by the
Planning Commission, and provided further that, should any of the uses by
changed for the facilities discontinued, then the required spaces for the use
or uses remaining shall be provided elsewhere as a condition precedent to the
continued use of said building or buildings.
   (G)   Continuation of facilities.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading facilities accessory to an existing
use on the effective date of this chapter, and those required as accessory to a
use created or a building constructed or altered thereafter, shall be continued
and maintained in operation, and shall not be used for automobile sales,
service or repair of motor vehicles, and shall not be reduced below the
requirements of this chapter during the period that the main use is maintained,
unless an equivalent number of spaces shall be provided for said use in another
approved location.
      (2)   Wherever parking facilities are permitted on land other than the
zoning lot on which the building or use served is located, such facilities
shall be in the same ownership as the zoning lot occupied by the building or
use to which the parking facilities are accessory. Such ownership shall be by
deed or a long-term lease agreement, whereby the owner of the land on which the
parking facilities are to be located shall be bound by a covenant filed and
recorded in the office of the County Recorder, requiring each such owner, his
or her heirs, or assigns to maintain the required number of parking facilities
for the duration of the use served as a precedent to the continuation of such
use.
   (H)   Location of parking facilities. Accessory parking facilities shall be
provided at locations as set forth herein except as may be modified by
divisions (F) and (G) above.
      (1)   Residential Districts and uses.
         (a)   Accessory, enclosed or open parking facilities as required shall
be provided on the same lot as the dwelling unit served.
         (b)   In multifamily districts, parking facilities shall be provided
within a walking distance of 200 feet of the building entrance of the unit to
be served.
         (c)   In one and two-family residential districts one truck, which is
used solely by the occupant and does not exceed three-quarter tons in rated
capacity, may be stored on the lot.
      (2)   Civic uses and places of assembly. Where churches, civic clubs,
community centers, auditoriums, lodge halls, gymnasiums and stadiums share
parking facilities where adjacent business establishments, such parking
facilities shall be located within a walking distance of not more than 250 feet
from the entrance of the main building of said use.
      (3)   Business and office uses.
         (a)   Accessory parking facilities shall be provided on the same lot
as the main use served in the Central Business District, except where modified
by the Planning Commission in accordance with the provisions of division (F)
above. In such cases the nearest point of the parking lot shall be located
within a walking distance of not more than 250 feet from the main entrance of
the building served.
         (b)   A parking area serving the uses covered in this subsection shall
be further regulated in relation in any adjoining residential district lines as
set forth in §
155.17(F).
   (I)   Loading facilities. Accessory loading and unloading facilities shall
be provided as a condition precedence to occupancy of all business, service and
industrial buildings hereafter erected and altered, and shall be maintained as
long as such building is occupied or unless equivalent facilities are provided
in conformance with the regulations of this section.
      (1)   Allocation of use. Space required and allocated for any off-street
loading facility shall not, while so allocated be used to satisfy the space
requirements for off-street parking. An off-street loading space shall not be
used for repairing or servicing of motor vehicles.
      (2)   Location of facility. All required accessory loading facilities
shall be related to the building and use to be served to provide for loading
and off-loading of delivery trucks and other service vehicles and shall be so
arranged that they may be used without blocking or otherwise interfering with
the use of accessways, parking facilities, public streets or sidewalks. A
required loading space shall not be located in a required front yard, or a
required side or rear yard if adjoining a residential district. If a loading
space is entirely enclosed, it may be located in such side or rear yard if
approved by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Access driveways. Each required off-street loading space shall be
designed for direct vehicular access by means of a driveway, or driveways, to a
public street in a manner which will least interfere with adjacent traffic
movements and interior circulation. The access drive of an off-street loading
facility shall be located so that the driveway centerline shall be not less
than 50 feet from the nearest intersecting street right-of-way line.
      (4)   Minimum size criteria. A required off-street loading space shall be
at least ten feet wide by at least 30 feet in length. The above area shall be
exclusive of the maneuvering space, and each loading facility shall have a
vertical clearance of at least ten feet.
   (J)   Schedule of required loading facilities. Accessory off-street loading
spaces shall be provided as required for the following uses:
Use Gross Floor Area of Building (sq. ft.) Required Number of Spaces
Use                     Gross Floor Area of Building Required Number of Spaces
                        (sq. ft.)
Printing, publishing
warehouses, storage     3,000 to 40,000 square feet  1
establishments
                       40,000 to 100,000 square     2
                        feet
Retail store, all types 3,000 to 20,000 square feet  1
                       20,000 to 50,000 square feet 2
                       50,000 to 100,000 square     3
                        feet
Servicing, cleaning,
repairing, testing, or  3,000 to 40,000 square feet  1
manufacturing
establishments
                       40,000 to 100,000 square     2
                        feet
                       Each additional 100,000      1 additional space
                        square feet
 
   (K)   Approval of facilities. Detailed drawings of accessory off-street
parking and loading facilities shall be submitted in accordance with all the
provisions of this section for review by the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission may required structural or landscape features such as bumper guards,
curbs, walls, fences, shrubs, ground cover or hedges to further carry out the
objectives of this chapter before an application is approved and a building
permit or certificate of occupancy may be issued.
   (L)   Parking of vehicles weighing over seven tons on public streets in
Residential Districts.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. All districts designated as R-1, R-2 or R-3.
         WEIGHT. The total avoirdupois weight of the vehicle and load and does
not refer to the axle load or wheel load.
      (2)   Prohibition. No person shall park a vehicle upon a public street
within a residential district within the village which has a weight in excess
of seven tons, nor shall the owner of a vehicle with a weight in excess of
seven tons permit such a vehicle to be parked upon a public street within a
residential district within the village.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 797-80, passed 8-18-1980)
§ 155.31 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. Sign regulations, including provisions to control the type,
design, size, location, motion, illumination and maintenance thereof, are
established in order to achieve, among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To maintain high value residential districts and promote attractive
public facilities, by permitting only name plates, bulletin boards and signs
related to the development, rental or sale of properties in such districts;
      (2)   To provide reasonable, yet appropriate, conditions for advertising
goods sold or services rendered in business districts by relating the size,
type and design of signs to the type and size of establishments;
      (3)   To eliminate any conflict between advertising signs and traffic-
control signs which would be hazardous to the safety of the motoring public or
the pedestrian;
      (4)   To control the design of signs so that their appearance will be
esthetically harmonious with an overall urban design for the area; and
      (5)   To promote the most desirable developments and economic activity in
accordance with the objectives of the zoning code.
   (B)   Establishing regulations.
      (1)   Signs shall be designed, erected, altered, reconstructed, moved and
maintained, in whole or in part, in accordance with the type, design, size,
location, illumination and other provisions set forth in this section.
      (2)   The construction, erection, safety and maintenance of all signs
shall be in accordance with the Building Code. The provisions of this section
shall not amend or in any way interfere with other codes, rules or regulations
governing traffic signs within the village.
      (3)   The display of official public notices, and the flag, emblem or
insignia of an official governmental body shall not be governed by the
provisions of these regulations.
   (C)   Classification of signs.
      (1)   Definition. SIGN means any display, figure, painting, drawing,
placard, poster or other device visible from a public way which is designed,
intended or used to convey a message, advertise, inform or direct attention to
a person, institution, organization, activity, place, object or product. It may
be a structure or part thereof printed on or attached directly or indirectly on
a structure;
      (2)   Classification by use types. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
         BULLETIN BOARD. An announcement sign which directs attention to and is
located on the lot of a public or semi-public institution.
         BUSINESS SIGN. A sign which directs attention to the name of the
business or establishment, the goods or commodities sold, or services rendered,
on the lot on which the sign is located.
         DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign indicating the direction to which attention
is called either on the lot on which the sign is located or which directs
attention to another location.
         IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign, indicating the name, owner or manager of
an existing project, structure or building.
         INDUSTRIAL OR SERVICE SIGN. A sign which directs attention to the
name, service or industrial establishment, goods produced or sold, or service
rendered, on the lot on which the sign is located.
         INFORMATIONAL SIGN. A sign which is designed to give general
information to the public concerning the location of places for lodging or
eating, vehicle service, natural phenomena, weather, time, historic sites,
areas of natural scenic beauty or outdoor recreation facilities and similar
information.
         NAMEPLATE. A sign indicating the name, address of the profession of
the person or persons occupying the lot or a part of a structure or building.
         PROJECT SIGN. A sign which directs attention to the promotion,
development and construction of the property on which it is located and which
identifies the architects, engineers, contractors and other individuals or
firms involved with the construction.
         REAL ESTATE. A sign advertising the sale, rental or lease of the
premises or part of the premises on which the sign is displayed.
         TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign of any type to announce special events or
sales, to announce the sale, lease or rental of property, and designed for use
for a limited period of time.
      (3)   Classification by structural types.
         CANOPY SIGN. A sign attached to the soffit or fascia of a canopy, of a
covered entrance or walkway, or to a permanent awning or marquee.
         GROUND SIGN. A freestanding sign which is supported by one or more
poles, posts or braces in or upon the ground.
         POLE SIGN. A sign which is supported wholly by a pole or poles and
designed so as to permit pedestrian or vehicular traffic thereunder.
         PROJECTING SIGN. A sign, other than a wall sign, erected on the
outside wall of a building and which projects out at an angle therefrom.
         WALL OR PANEL SIGN. A sign integrated with the exterior face of an
exterior wall of a structure or building, or attached to the wall or parallel
with the wall and projecting not more than 12 inches therefrom.
         WINDOW SIGNS. A sign painted, attached or affixed to the exterior or
exterior surface of windows or doors of a structure or building.
   (D)   Measurement standards. Signs are regulated in this chapter by relating
the gross area of signs to the building or use of a lot, or to the size of the
building unit to which the sign is accessory.
      (1)   (a)   The “gross area of signs” for a building or use shall include
all the surfaces visible from a public way and shall be measured as the area
enclosed by one rectangle, the sides of which make contact with the extreme
points or edges of the sign, excluding the supporting structure if such
structure does not form a part of the advertisement of the sign proper.
         (b)   The area of a sign composed of characters or words attached
directly to a large, uniform structure or building wall surface shall be the
smallest rectangle which enclosed the entire group.
      (2)   Whenever the gross area of the signs are related to the size of the
structure, building or lot:
         (a)   The “frontage of a building” shall be the width of the facade of
the structure, building, store, service or office unit which faces the
principal street, or the facade containing the main entrance of a store,
office, service or manufacturing building; for corner buildings half of the
building depth facing the side street may be included in the frontage width
factor.
         (b)   The “frontage of a lot” not occupied by a building shall be the
number of lineal feet the lot abuts on the principal street.
      (3)   Buildings or lots having frontage on a second street or a secondary
entrance to a parking area, may be permitted additional signs along such
secondary streets which shall, however, not exceed 20% of the area of the signs
permitted along the main facade.
   (E)   Design standards. Signs, as permitted in the various use districts
shall be designed so as to be similar in character with regard to materials,
color and size to signs designed or located on the same building and on
adjoining buildings in order to equalize the attention they are meant to
attract, and to produce an overall unified effect and in accordance with the
standards set forth in this section.
      (1)   Wall or panel sign shall not project more than 12 inches from the
structure or building wall to which it is attached and shall be setback from
the end of the building and party wall lines for a distance of at least two
feet and shall not project beyond any corner or above the coping or eaves of
any structure or building.
      (2)   Projecting signs may be attached to the structure or building wall
or canopy and project at an angle of approximately 90 degrees for a distance of
not more than five feet or project over the cornice line more than one-third of
the total height of the sign. Projecting signs shall be located not less than
five feet from a party wall line and the lowest member of a projecting sign
shall be at least eight feet above a public sidewalk and 15 feet above any
drive. Signs shall not project into any dedicated right-of-way.
      (3)   Pole signs may be attached to the structure or building wall or
canopy and project at an angle of approximately 90 degrees for a distance of
not more than five feet or project over the cornice line more than one-third of
the total height of the sign.
      (4)   Permanent ground signs shall not extend 50 feet in any district
where such signs are permitted.
      (5)   Vertical dimension is the lowest member for all signs which project
or are supported on posts, shall be not less than eight feet above the finished
grade of a sidewalk or any other pedestrian way; and if located over a pavement
used for vehicular traffic or within 18 inches of the vertical projection of
the edge of such pavement, the lowest member of the sign shall be not less than
15 feet above the finished pavement.
      (6)   Relation to openings: signs shall not project over or obstruct the
required windows or doors of any structure or building, shall not be attached
to or obstruct a fire escape or interfere with other safety provisions as may
be further regulated in other codes.
      (7)   Relation to traffic devices: signs shall not be erected so as to
obstruct “sight lines” along any public way, traffic-control lights, street
name signs at intersections or street sight lines or signals at railroad grade
crossings. Signs visible from the sight lines along a street shall not contain
an arrow or words such as “stop”, “go”, “slow” and the like. And the movement,
content, coloring or manner of illumination shall not resemble highway traffic
signs. Flashing or moving illumination shall be permitted only by approval of
the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Illumination of signs. Light sources to illuminate signs shall be
shielded from all adjacent residential buildings and streets and shall not be
of such height so as to cause glare hazardous to pedestrians or auto drivers or
so as to cause reasonable objection from adjacent residential districts.
   (G)   Residential districts. Accessory signs in any residential district
shall be designed, erected, altered, moved and maintained, in whole or in part,
in accordance with the regulations as follows.
      (1)   The types of signs permitted as to use, structure, size and number
for each dwelling or lot shall be regulated as follows.
         (a)   One nameplate indicating the occupant’s name, and house number,
not exceeding ten square feet in area may be located on any structure or
building or lot but not less than ten feet from any lot or street right-of-way
line. In a multifamily district one permanent identification sign, indicating
the name, owner or manager of the multifamily project, not exceeding 20 square
feet in area shall be permitted facing each major street but not less than ten
feet from a side lot line and ten feet from any street right-of-way line.
         (b)   One directional or no trespassing sign not exceeding five square
feet in area shall be permitted on any building or lot located not less than
ten feet from any lot line or street right-of-way;
         (c)   One real estate sign, advertising the sale, rental or lease of
the premises or part of the premises on which the sign is displayed, not
exceeding ten square feet in area of five feet in height, shall be permitted
for each dwelling or lot, provided, said sign shall be located not less than
ten feet from any lot or street right-of-way line; illumination shall not be
permitted.
         (d)   Subdivision project signs not exceeding 100 square feet in total
area may be permitted while a subdivision is under construction provided said
sign is located not less than 50 feet from any occupied residence and not less
than ten feet from the nearest street right-of-way line. Permits for such signs
shall be for a period not exceeding one year, however, such permits may be
renewed while construction is pursued diligently. Project signs shall be
removed within 30 days of the commencement of the intended use.
         (e)   One bulletin board or announcement sign not exceeding 20 square
feet in area or five feet in height may be located on the premises of a public
charitable or religious institution in any residential district but not less
than ten feet from any residential lot line or less than ten feet from the
nearest street right-of-way line; indirect illumination shall be permitted.
   (H)   Business district signs. Accessory signs in Convenience, General and
Central Business Districts shall be designed, erected, altered, moved and
maintained, in whole or in part in accordance with regulations as follows.
      (1)   Use types permitted.
         (a)   Business signs, directing attention to the business
establishment;
         (b)   Directional signs, to direct pedestrians and vehicles;
         (c)   Professional nameplates and identification signs; and
         (d)   Real estate and project signs of a temporary nature.
      (2)   Structural types permitted. Wall or panel, canopy, ground,
projecting and pole signs, shall be permitted in accordance with regulations
set forth in this section in any Convenience, General or Central Business
District.
      (3)   Maximum area and number permitted.
         (a)   Generally. The maximum gross area of all permanent signs
permitted for each separate use occupying a structure of building, unit of a
building or lot not occupied by a structure or building shall be related to the
width of the structure or building, unit thereof or lot not occupied by a
structure or building, adjusted, however, so that the smaller establishments
may be permitted reasonable sign areas and so that the larger establishments
may not have excessive sign areas. Signs accessory to a structure or building
or unit thereof shall be determined by the following formula:
   Maximum gross area of signs = (W x 1.5) + 40 square feet
         (b)   Formula elements. The elements of said formula being defined as
follows:
            1.   “Maximum gross area” means the “total area of all permanent
signs”; and
            2.   “W” means the “frontage of a structure or building” as defined
in division (D) above.
         (c)   Lot not occupied by structure of building.
            1.   Signs permitted for each separate use of a lot not occupied by
a structure or building shall be determined by the following formula:
   Maximum gross area of sign = (W x .75)
            2.   Example: Assume a 30 foot wide store facing one street in a
General Business District: Maximum gross area of signs equals 30 x 1.5 + 40 =
85 square feet.
   (I)   Business sign location and supplementary area regulations. Accessory
signs in any business district shall be also controlled by location and
supplementary area regulations as follows.
      (1)   Wall signs. A single wall sign shall not exceed 150 square feet in
total area.
      (2)   Protective signs. Protective signs shall be limited to not more
than one for each establishment or store unit and shall not exceed 50 square
feet in total area for each face visible from any location on a public way.
Projecting signs shall be located not less than five feet from a side lot line
and not less than ten feet from any residential district boundary line. Signs
shall not project into any dedicated right-of-way.
      (3)   Pole signs. Pole signs may be located within required yards if
approved by the Planning Commission and shall be not less than ten feet from
any residential district boundary line. In Convenience and/or General Business
Districts, the maximum size of any face of a pole sign shall not exceed 70
square feet in area. The support for a pole sign shall not be located within,
nor shall such sign project over, any dedicated right-of-way.
      (4)   Canopy or covered walk signs. Canopy or covered walk signs may be
attached to the soffit or fascia of a canopy or roof over a walkway structural
member; however, the vertical dimension of such signs, including the fascia,
shall not exceed five feet and the lowest member shall be not less than eight
feet above the sidewalk grade.
      (5)   Ground signs. Ground signs shall not be located within required
yards unless approved by the Planning Commission. Any ground sign shall not be
less than ten feet from another business lot or street right-of-way line and
not less than 20 feet from any residential district boundary line.
      (6)   Canopy signs for indoor theaters. The Planning Commission shall
determine the size, area, and design of signs for each indoor theater in
accordance with conditional use permit procedures set forth in §
155.50(G).
      (7)   Permanent directional signs. Permanent directional signs,
indicating traffic routes and similar functions shall be permitted in addition
to the other limitations of this section provided each sign does not exceed
five square feet in area and is not closer than ten feet of any lot or street
right-of-way line.
      (8)   Temporary project signs. Temporary project signs not exceeding 100
square feet in total area for each street frontage shall be permitted if
located on the lot which is occupied by the building or use promoted or if
announcing a proposed structure or building or a structure or building under
construction. Such project signs shall be located not less than 50 feet from
the nearest residential lot line and not less than ten feet from the nearest
street right-of-way line. Permits for such signs shall be for a period not
exceeding open year, however, such permits may be renewed while construction is
pursued diligently. Project signs shall be removed within 30 days of the
commencement of the intended use.
      (9)   Other temporary signs. Other temporary signs announcing sales, new
products or special business events may be permitted in addition to the maximum
gross area of a permanent business sign, and may be placed on the inside of
windows and doors and on the exterior of any structure or building, provided
said signs are not displayed more than 60 consecutive days.
   (J)   Industrial District signs. Accessory signs in Light and Heavy
Industrial Districts shall be designed, erected, altered, moved and maintained
in whole or in part, in accordance with the schedule and regulations as
follows.
      (1)   Use types permitted.
         (a)   Directional signs of the type permitted and as regulated in
business districts;
         (b)   Service and industrial signs, name plates and identification
signs; and
         (c)   Real estate and project signs of a temporary nature.
      (2)   Structural types permitted. Wall or panel canopy, ground, projected
and pole signs.
      (3)   Maximum area and number permitted. The maximum gross area of all
permanent signs permitted for each separate use occupying a structure or
building, or a unit of a structure or building in any industrial district shall
be directly related to the width of the structure or building or unit thereof
as follows.
         (a)   Light Industrial District. The maximum gross area of signs shall
not exceed two square feet for each lineal foot of structure or building
frontage.
         (b)   Heavy Industrial District. The maximum gross area of signs shall
not exceed three square feet for each lineal foot of the building frontage,
provided, however, the maximum area of any permanent identification sign shall
not exceed 500 square feet on the lot occupied by the structure or building to
which the sign is accessory.
   (K)   Industrial District sign location.
      (1)   Signs shall be located so as to maintain the same setback and yards
as required for structures or buildings except one commercial or industrial
ground or pole sign may be permitted within the required yards if approved by
the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Ground and pole signs shall be located not less than 20 feet from
any adjacent residential district in a Light Industrial District and 50 feet in
any Heavy Industrial District.
      (3)   A permanent ground or pole sign shall not be located closer than
ten feet to a public street right-of-way in any industrial district. The design
of wall or panel, canopy, ground, projected and pole signs in any industrial
district shall be in accordance with the standards set forth in division (E)
above.
         (a)   Application for permits.
            1.   Application for permits to erect, place, paint, illuminate or
alter a sign shall be made by the owner or lessee of the property for which a
sign is proposed. The application shall be made either separately or with the
application for a building permit.
            2.   A sign permit shall be required for all permanent signs as
follows:
               a.   Residential districts: if the sign exceed 20 square feet in
area;
               b.   Business districts: if the total area of the sign exceeds
100 square feet in area. A permit shall not be required for placing permanent
signs on the surface of windows or doors; and
               c.   Industrial district: if the total area of the signs exceeds
300 square feet.
         (b)   Application.
            1.   Each application shall be accompanied by drawings to scale,
showing:
               a.   The design and layout proposed including the total area of
the sign, the size, character, materials and color of letters, lines and
symbols;
               b.   The method of illumination, if any;
               c.   The exact location of the sign in relation to the structure
or building and property; and
               d.   Details and specifications for construction, erection and
attachment as may be required by the building.
            2.   In the development of a group of stores and services in any
business district, a plan for the signing of said development shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission for review and approval in accordance with
the provisions set forth in §
155.17.
   (M)   Maintenance of signs. All signs and sign structures shall be
maintained in a safe and attractive condition. Signs which no longer serve the
purpose for which they are intended, or which have been abandoned or are not
maintained in accordance with this chapter and other applicable regulations of
the village shall be removed by the latest permit holder or by the village at
the expense of such permit holder.
   (N)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   A sign conforming as to the regulations prevailing on the effective
date of this chapter but which does not conform with the regulations of this
chapter or subsequent amendments shall be construed as a legal nonconforming
sign.
      (2)   Nonconforming signs may be maintained and structural parts repaired
or restored to a safe condition if required and if a permit is issued provided,
however, that any sign or parts thereof which has been blown down, destroyed or
otherwise taken down for any purpose shall not be rebuilt, re-erected or
relocated unless it shall be made to comply with the provisions of this chapter
and the Building Code.
   (O)   Removal of signs. Whenever the removal or maintenance of any permanent
sign has been ordered by the Building Department, the person, firm or
corporation who erected such a sign or on whose premises such sign or display
structure has been erected, affixed or attached shall remove or maintain such
sign within 30 days after receiving such notice. In the event of noncompliance,
the Building Department may remove or cause to be removed or maintain such sign
at the expense of the person, firm or corporation who erected such sign or on
whose premises it was erected, affixed or attached and each such person, firm
or corporation shall be individually and separately liable for the expense
incurred in the removal of said sign.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970)
§ 155.32 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Intent. Regulations for the continuance, maintenance, repair,
restoring, moving and discontinuance of nonconforming structures, buildings,
land uses are established in order to achieve, among others, the following
purposes:
      (1)   To permit the continuance but control nonconformity so as to
minimize any adverse affect on the adjoining properties and development;
      (2)   To regulate their maintenance and repair;
      (3)   To restrict their rebuilding if substantially destroyed;
      (4)   To require their permanent discontinuance if not operated for
certain periods of time; and
      (5)   To require conformity if it is discontinued, to bring about
eventual conformity in accordance with the objectives of the zoning code.
   (B)   Lawful nonconformance. The lawful use of any dwelling, building or
structure and of any land or premises as existing and lawful at the time of
enacting this chapter, may be continued, although such use does not conform to
the provisions of this chapter. The completion, restoration, reconstruction,
extension or substitution of nonconforming uses shall be subject to the
provision and conditions as set forth in this section.
   (C)   Discontinuance and abandonment. Any nonconforming use of land or
building shall be considered abandoned when the owner, lessee or tenant has
discontinued such use for one year or more, or when the nonconforming use has
been replaced by a conforming use.
   (D)   Maintenance and repair. A nonconforming building or structure may be
continued to be used and normal repairs and improvements may be made. For the
purpose of this chapter, normal repairs shall include the ordinary maintenance
of a building or structure, and the replacement of equipment which is required
for safety of operation, and the replacement or substitutions of machinery or
equipment. It shall not include the replacement of the structure or structural
parts in any nonconforming building or structure except when required by law to
restore same to a safe condition, or to make the building, use or structure
conforming.
   (E)   Restoration of damaged structure.
      (1)   Any nonconforming building or structure which has been destroyed or
damaged by fire, other casualty, act of God or by a public enemy to the extent
of 50% or more, of its costs or restoration to the condition in which it was
before the occurrence, shall thereafter conform to all the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   The total structural repairs, improvements and alterations
including repairs occasioned by fire, other casualty, act of God or by a public
enemy to the extent of less than 50% of its cost of restoration, shall not,
during the life of the structure or use after the enactment of this chapter,
exceed 50% of the reproduction value of the structure as of the date of
enactment of this chapter, unless the structure or use by permanently changed
to a conforming use.
      (3)   Determination of the production value shall be made by three
practicing building construction contractors, one to be appointed by owner, one
to be appointed by the village and the third to be selected by the mutual
consent of the two parties.
      (4)   In the case of repair or replacement of partial destruction of the
structure, a building permit must be applied for within six months of the
destruction and repairs must be completed within six months of the issuance of
the permit or the nonconforming structure or use shall be considered to be
abandoned.
   (F)   Extension prohibited. Any nonconforming building or structure shall
not be enlarged or structurally altered except to make it a conforming building
or a structure. A nonconforming use may not be extended within a building or
structure enlarged or added to in any manner.
   (G)   Nonconforming change prohibited. The use of a nonconforming building
or structure may be changed only to a use conforming to the district in which
the building or structure is located, and only if approved by the Planning
Commission, after a public hearing. Thereafter, it shall not be changed back to
the former nonconforming use.
   (H)   Moving nonconforming structure. A nonconforming building or structure
may be moved to a different location on the same lot or other parcel of land
within the district, with approval of the Planning Commission, after a hearing,
and provided proper and adequate alterations are secured to make the building
or structure conform to the regulations of the district where it is to be
located.
   (I)   Nonconforming parking facilities. A building, use or structure
existing lawfully at the time this chapter or any amendment thereto became
effective, but which does not conform with the off-street parking or off-street
loading regulations, may be occupied by the existing use without such parking
and/or loading facilities being provided; however, any parking spaces that may
be provided thereafter shall comply with the regulations set forth in §
155.30. Furthermore, if the existing building use, or structure is altered so
that there is an increase of the number of dwelling units, seating capacity or
floor area, or if the use is changed to a use requiring more off-street
facilities, then off-street parking and loading facilities shall be provided at
least equal to the number of spaces required for the entire building, use or
structure in accordance with all provisions of §
155.30.
   (J)   Nonconforming due to amendments. The foregoing provisions of this
section shall also apply to buildings, structures, land or other uses hereafter
becoming nonconforming as a result of future reclassification of districts or
of other amendments made to this chapter.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970)
§ 155.33 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Intent. Provision for essential services requirements are established
in order to achieve among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide a reasonable assurance that rights-of-way, easement or
other spaces will be available for the installation, placement, erection or
construction of utility systems;
      (2)   To provide for the alteration and maintenance of such utility
systems; and
      (3)   To promote the general convenience, welfare and prosperity of
business, service, research, production and manufacturing developments and
convenience to residences, all of which depend upon essential services.
   (B)   Scope of regulations. The extent of these provisions is to make
possible the locating of essential services in any district, said essential
services shall include:
      (1)   Facilities of public utilities, municipal departments or
commissioners;
      (2)   Locations underground, on the surface, or overhead;
      (3)   Conveyances for gas, electrical, steam, wastes or water;
      (4)   The facilities may include collection, storage, transmission or
distribution systems;
      (5)   The components of such facilities may include mains, drains,
sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes,
traffic signals, hydrants, poles and other similar equipment, and accessories
in connection therewith, but not including buildings or towers; towers may be
utilized subject to the issuance of conditional use permits in accordance with
the provisions of §
155.50(G); and
      (6)   All of the aforementioned being reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or municipal
departments or commissions or for the public health, convenience, safety or
general welfare.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970)
§ 155.34 FENCES.
   (A)   Every property owner upon whose property a fence has been erected must
maintain said fence in good condition at all times and, where applicable, keep
said fence painted.
   (B)   All types of fence shall have a finished appearance on the outside.
   (C)   The following types of fences shall be prohibited: barbed wire, non-
secure type of wire fence, any other materials that at the discretion of the
Zoning Inspector could constitute a hazard to the safety and welfare of the
general public.
   (D)   Front yard fences (to building line): all fences within the front yard
setback line shall be open type fences only, with a maximum height of six feet.
   (E)   Side and rear yard fences: along side and rear yard, open and solid
type fences are permitted to a maximum height of seven feet along side yard
line and seven feet within the rear yard line.
   (F)   Fences not in excess of eight feet in height shall be permitted to be
used as privacy screens around patios and pools in the rear lots of residence
properties provided such fences are not located on any property line.
   (G)   Divisions (D), (E) and (F) above shall not apply to any fences where
the law of the state or of the United States specifies otherwise due to the
nature of the use of the property by the property owner if said use is
otherwise in compliance with this zoning code.
   (H)   It is the intent of this section to provide a clear zone of 25 feet
from all intersections for clear visibility of motorists. This 25 feet clear
zone shall be free from all structures, fences and shrubbery which project into
the line of visibility.
(Ord. 840-82, passed 8-16-1982) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.35 SATELLITE DISH ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA SYSTEMS. Dish shaped antennas designed to receive
microwave transmissions from satellites in earth’s orbit, primarily for
television broadcasting.
   (B)   Accessory use. Satellite dish antennas shall be permitted as an
accessory use in all zone districts, and are subject to requirements as
follows.
      (1)   (a)   In residential districts ground-mounted satellite dishes
shall be limited to rear yard areas or the rearward portion of the lot or
parcel.
         (b)   No part of the satellite dish shall be closer than five feet to
the rear or side lot line.
      (2)   Ground-mounted satellite dishes shall be limited to a maximum
diameter of ten feet or less.
      (3)   (a)   Roof-mounted satellite dishes shall be located on the
rearward portion of the roof as viewed from the front yard and shall not exceed
five feet above the highest roof peak of the principal structure.
         (b)   Roof installations shall be mounted in accordance with
manufacturer’s recommendations and be properly secured to prevent damage from
wind and snow loads.
         (c)   The proper and secure installation of the unit is the sole
responsibility of the property owner or individuals performing the
installation.
         (d)   The village, by authorizing the installation by means of a
building permit, does in no way, shape or form attest to the soundness of the
installation and compliance with manufacturers recommendations.
(Ord. 976-88, passed 9-19-1988)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.50 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   Procedures for administering, interpreting and enforcing this
chapter are herein established in order to achieve, among others, the following
purposes:
         (a)   To provide for the review of an application for a building
permit;
         (b)   To provide for the inclusion of necessary facilities, services
and other uncommon uses through condition use permits;
         (c)   To provide for the inclusion of uses which are uncommon but
which have characteristics similar to permitted main uses;
         (d)   To assure that in the construction of new buildings, alterations
or change of use, all required provisions have been complied with by requiring
a certificate before occupancy; and
         (e)   To provide supplementary administrative procedures in conformity
with the objectives of the zoning code.
      (2)   In administrating this chapter, the provisions shall be regarded as
establishing minimum requirements and shall be used specifically to further the
underlying purposes, objectives and intent set forth in the preamble to each
section.
      (3)   The relationship of this chapter to other laws, rules and
regulations and the relationship if Two or more specific provisions of this
chapter apply to the same subject are set forth in §
155.01.
   (B)   General procedures.
      (1)   The administration of this chapter is vested in the following
officials, commissions and boards of the village:
         (a)   Planning Commission;
         (b)   Building Department; and
         (c)   Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be obtained
by:
         (a)   Applying for the issuance of a building permit including the
following, if applicable:
            1.   Application for a conditional use permit;
            2.   Application for determination of similar use;
            3.   Application and approval of a development plan; and
            4.   Appeals for an interpretation or a request for a variance.
         (b)   Application for certificate of occupancy issued upon completion
of the building or the land improvement.
      (3)   Enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall be obtained by
inspection and order for removal of violations. Failure to comply with such
order shall constitute an offense which may be followed with civil action.
   (C)   Building permit. Excavations for buildings or site improvements shall
not be started, or buildings or structures, or parts thereof, shall not be
erected, altered or moved until a building permit has been applied for and
issued by the Building Department.
      (1)   Approval of development plans. Approval of development plans,
whenever such a plan has been submitted by the developer as required by this
chapter, the preliminary plan and final plan of the development area shall have
been approved by the Planning Commission before a building permit may be issued
by the Building Department.
      (2)   Compliance to zoning regulations. Permits for the construction of a
building or land improvements or change in use may be issued by the Building
Department only if the work described in an application clearly complies with
all provisions of the zoning and other codes of the village. If the building or
use does not clearly comply, the Building Department shall not have the power
to grant variances or make exceptions unless specifically so empowered.
      (3)   Conditional use permit. Conditional use permit, whenever a
determination for a conditional use is required, a building permit for the
building or use requiring a conditional use permit shall not be issued until
such permit has been applied for and issued by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Determination of similar use. Determination of similar use,
whenever a determination for a “similar use” is required, a building permit for
the building or use shall not be issued until the inclusion of said use as a
permitted use has been made by the Planning Commission and confirmed by
Council.
   (D)   Withholding permits.
      (1)   Amendment pending. No building permit or certificate of occupancy,
shall be issued during the period in which an amendment which would affect the
building or use applied for has been recommended by the Planning Commission or
introduced by the Council, provided however, an application for a permit or
certificate shall not be withheld for more than 90 days after the application
was officially submitted.
      (2)   Nonconforming lot. No building permit shall be issued for a one- or
two-family building unless the residential lot shall abut upon a public street;
the utilities, pavement and all other required improvements have been
constructed, or their construction guaranteed; the lot be located in a duly
recorded subdivision or approved by the Planning Commission and no plat
required; or resubdivided in accordance with the provisions of §
155.15(Q) so as to conform with the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Required drawings. In addition to drawings required by the provisions
of the Building Code, application for a building permit shall be accompanied
by:
      (1)   A plat showing dimensions of the lot to be developed, lot number, a
topographic survey or adequate topographic data, and evidence that the lot has
been surveyed and certified by a registered surveyor or engineer;
      (2)   A site plan, drawn to scale showing the location of proposed and
existing buildings, driveway and parking areas, and proposed finished grades;
also the location and use of buildings on adjoining lots within distances
specified in other sections of this chapter. For residential developments the
size and location of a garage shall be shown; and
      (3)   Such other drawings and information as may be required by the
provisions of §
155.15 for residential districts, §
155.16 for mobile home districts, §
155.17 for business districts, §
155.18 for industrial districts, §
155.19 for flood plain districts, §
155.30 for parking and loading facilities and §
155.31 for signs.
   (F)   Application for permits.
      (1)   Applications. Application for building permits, and accompanying
drawings, shall be submitted to the Building Department. After processing same,
as to general conformance to the Building Code, the Building Department shall
submit to the Planning Commission those applications which require its
approval, and to the Board of Zoning Appeals if the application involves any
interpretation required by it.
      (2)   Approval. The Building Department, having received a report of
approval from the Council, Planning Commission and Appeals Board, as may be
applicable, and finding the drawings, specifications and all documents comply
with this chapter and other relevant codes of the village, may issue upon
payment of required fees a building permit.
      (3)   Disapproval. If the Council, Planning Commission, Board of Zoning
Appeals or the Building Department do not recommend approval of the
application, they shall suggest changes in the drawings as may be necessary to
accomplish the purpose of this chapter. In such instances, conferences with
applicants may be held and the application revised or resubmitted, as may be
required.
   (G)   Conditional use permits.
      (1)   Conditional use permits shall be required for certain types of main
uses as defined in §
155.03, generally publicly operated or a facility which affects the public
interest. Such use may be permitted and desirable in certain districts but not
without consideration in each case of the affect of the use upon neighboring
land and the public need for the particular use at the particular location. The
application of the planning standards for determining the location and extent
of such use is a planning function and not in the nature of a variance or
appeal.
      (2)   Enumerated throughout this chapter are certain uses and the
districts in which conditional uses may be permitted provided the following
standards are fulfilled and a conditional use permit is granted by the Planning
Commission.
         (a)   Application. Application for such permits received from the
proponent shall be submitted by the Building Department to the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall hold a hearing thereon notice of
which may be published in a newspaper of general circulation, or mailed to the
owners of property contiguous to and across the street from the parcel for
which a conditional use permit is requested at least 15 days before the
hearing. The Planning Commission shall take action upon such application within
30 days from the date of receiving said application. Failure to act within said
period shall be deemed approval.
         (b)   Standards for evaluating conditional use permit. An application
for a conditional use permit shall not be approved unless the following
conditions and standards are complied with as set forth for the following
districts:
            1.   Residential Districts.
               a.   The proposed use is property located in relation to any
adopted land use or area plan, particularly to the secondary and local streets
and pedestrian circulation;
               b.   When located on a local street the proposed use will
generate the least possible traffic through a residential neighborhood;
               c.   The proposed use is necessary to serve the surrounding
residential areas which cannot be served satisfactorily if the same use is
located in a nearby less restrictive district where it may be permitted by
right;
               d.   The location, design and operation of such use will not
discourage the appropriate development or impair the value of the surrounding
residential district; and
               e.   For temporary structures every conditional use permit shall
be reviewed every six months and may be renewed only while the construction
operations are pursued diligently.
            2.   Business and industrial districts.
               a.   The proposed use be necessary to serve the community needs
and that existing similar facilities located in a less restrictive, or more
remote districts in which the use may be permitted by right, are inadequate;
               b.   The proposed use be not closer than appropriate in the
particular situation to schools, churches and other places of assembly;
               c.   The location, extent and intensity of the proposed use,
shall be such that its operation will not be objectionable to nearby dwellings
by reason of noise, smoke, dust, odors, fumes, vibrations or glare than is
normal or is permitted by the performance standards of the district;
               d.   The proposed use will form a harmonious part of the
business, or industrial district, taking into account among others, convenience
of access and relationship of one use to another;
               e.   The proposed use will be permitted in a more restrictive
district than in which it is permitted by right only because of its limited
extent, modern equipment and processes; and
               f.   The hours of operation and concentration of vehicles in
connection with the proposed use will not be more hazardous or dangerous than
the normal traffic of the district.
         (c)   Safeguards and conditions. In addition to complying with the
general standards set forth in this division (G), conditions appropriate to
each particular application may also be set forth in the permit.
         (d)   Approval. The approval of a conditional use permit shall become
null and void if the construction of the building or site improvements are not
started within a six-month period after the date of approval.
   (H)   Determination of similar uses.
      (1)   The determination as to whether a use is similar to uses permitted
by right shall be considered as an expansion of the use regulations of the
district and not as a variance applying to a particularly situation. Any use
found “similar” shall thereafter be included in the enumeration of uses
permitted by right.
      (2)   All applications for permits for a building or use not specifically
listed in any of the permitted building or use classifications in any of the
districts shall be submitted to the Planning Commission, and after approval by
it, confirmed by the Council in compliance with the following standards:
         (a)   Such use is not listed in any other classification of permitted
buildings or uses;
         (b)   Such a use is more appropriate and conforms to the basic
characteristics of the classification to which it is to be added than to an
other classification;
         (c)   Such a use does not create dangers to health and safety, and
does not create offensive noise, vibration, dust, heat, smoke, odor, glare or
other objectionable influences to an extent greater than normally resulting
from other uses listed in the classification to which it is to be added; and
         (d)   Such a use does not create traffic to a greater extent than the
other uses listed in the classification to which it is to be added.
   (I)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   A certificate of occupancy shall be applied for by the owner or his
or her agent and shall be issued by the Building Department as a condition
precedent to the occupancy and/or uses of a building and land as follows:
         (a)   Occupancy of a building erected or altered. A certificate of
occupancy shall be required before occupancy of a new building, or before
occupancy of an existing building which has been altered, moved, changed in use
or increased in off-street parking requirements. Said certificate shall only be
issued after the erection or alteration of said building or a component thereof
or a required accessory use has been provided and found by inspection to be in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter and the Building Code of the
village.
         (b)   Change in use of conforming building or land. A certificate of
occupancy shall be required before occupancy of a conforming structure,
building or land where the use has been changed, provided the use is different
than the prior use, and shall be issued, when found by inspection, to be in
conformity with provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   Change in use of nonconforming building or land. A certificate
of occupancy shall be required whenever a nonconforming structure, building or
land is changed, and shall not be issued until the Planning Commission has
approved the change in accordance with the provisions set forth in §
155.32.
      (2)   Record of existing building and land use. Upon application by the
owner, or his or her agent, the Building Department shall inspect a building or
tract of land existing on the effective date of this chapter and shall issue a
certificate of occupancy therefore certifying:
         (a)   The present use of the building or land;
         (b)   If such use conforms to all the provisions of the chapter; and
         (c)   If it is a lawfully existing nonconforming use.
      (3)   Application for certificate.
         (a)   Applications for a certificate of occupancy may be submitted
separately or may accompany an application for a building permit. Accurate
information shall be furnished by the owner or his or her agent, as to size and
location of the lot, buildings or structures occupying the lot, the dimensions
of all yards and open spaces, the use of land or building, and all such
information as may be included on a form to be furnished by the village.
         (b)   A record of all applications and certificates issued shall be
kept on file in the office of the Building Department and copies shall be
furnished, upon request, to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest
in the building or land affected.
   (J)   Enforcement. The duty of administering and enforcing the provisions of
the zoning code is hereby conferred upon the Building Department. The
Department may promulgate rules and regulations as it may determine as
necessary to supplement the administration of the chapter. After certification
by the council, such rules of the Building Department shall have the same force
and effect as the other provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   Inspection and order for removal of violation. The Building
Department is hereby empowered to enter any premises at a reasonable time to
inspect a reported violation of the chapter, examine and to order, in writing,
the remedying of any condition found to be existing in violation of any
provisions of this chapter. After such an order is served or posted on the
premises, no work, except to correct or comply with said violations shall
proceed on any building or tract of land until said violation is corrected.
      (2)   Offense for noncompliance. A person or corporation shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, where any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
exists in any structures, building or tract of land; where an order to remove
any such violation has been served on the owner, lessee or tenant of the
structure, building or tract of land, or part thereof, or upon the architect,
building contractor or any person who commits or assists in any such violation;
and where such person shall fail to comply with such order with 90 days after
the service of notice thereof.
      (3)   Civil action. In the event any building or structure is being
erected, constructed, altered, repaired or maintained in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, or there is an imminent threat of violation, the
village or the owner of any contiguous or neighboring property who would be
especially damaged by such violation may institute and maintain, in addition to
any other remedies provided by law, a suit in the Court of Common Pleas of the
county, for injunction to terminate or prevent such violation as a public
nuisance.
      (4)   Records and reports. The Building Department shall keep, or cause
to be kept, a record of any decisions, determinations or conclusions reached by
the Department in connection with the enforcement of the zoning code. Such
records shall be open to public inspection during regular business hours.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.51 ORGANIZATION OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. There is established a Village Planning Commission of
five members consisting of the Mayor, Village Administrator and three electors
of the municipality appointed by the Mayor subject to the approval of a
majority of the members elected to Council, serving for terms of six years
each.
   (B)   Officers and rules. The Planning Commission shall elected a
Chairperson and Secretary from its members. It shall adopt rules or by-laws for
the holding of regular and special meetings, the transaction and disposition of
its business and the exercise of the powers of the Commission, such procedure
shall be followed.
   (C)   Quorum. All meetings of the Planning Commission shall be open to the
public. A majority of its members shall constitute a quorum at any meeting. No
action of the Commission shall be deemed taken unless concurred in by a
majority of its members.
   (D)   Powers. The Planning Commission shall have such powers as are
conferred by the general laws of the state or by ordinance of the Council.
   (E)   Employment of consultants. The Planning Commission may control,
appoint or employ professional services, and may appoint a Secretary, clerks,
draftsmen, and other subordinates as it finds necessary in connection with the
performance of its functions and duties. Expenditures for such service and
employment shall be within the amount appropriated for such purpose by the
Council.
   (F)   Access to property. For the purpose of making necessary surveys,
engineers, agents and representatives of the Planning Commission may enter upon
all property within the limits of the village. Members, agents and
representatives of the Commission shall have access to all property in making
any survey in connection with any matter being considered by the Commission.
   (G)   Planning Commission approval required. No public building or
structure, street, park, playground, public ground, bridge or other public way,
ground, works or utility, whether publicly or privately owned, or a part
thereof, shall be constructed or authorized to be constructed within the limits
of the village unless and until it shall have been submitted to the Planning
Commission for report and recommendation. In the case of disapproval, the
Commission shall communicate its reasons therefore to the Council and to the
head of the department which has control of the construction of the proposed
improvement or utility. The Council, by a vote of not less than two-thirds of
its members, may over-rule such disapproval. If such public way, ground, works,
building, structure or utility is one of the authorization or financing of
which does not, under the law, fall within the province of the Council, the
submission to the Commission shall be by the state, school, county, district,
board, commission or body having jurisdiction and the Commission’s disapproval
may be over-ruled by such official, board, commission or body by a vote of not
less than two-thirds of its membership. The opening, widening, narrowing,
relocating, vacation or change in the use of streets and other public ways,
grounds, and places, shall be subject to similar approval and this approval may
be similarly over-ruled.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970)
§ 155.52 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Intent. A Board of Appeals is hereby established to assist in the
administration of this chapter, particularly, to decide and interpret
provisions which require impartial adjustments of conflicting interests and to
grant variances from the strict letter of the chapter in instances of
unnecessary hardship. Such a Board is herein established to achieve, among
others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide a method for alleviating unnecessary hardship by
allowing a reasonable use for individual parcels of property which, because of
unusual or unique circumstances, may be denied a reasonable use by a literal
application of the terms of this chapter;
      (2)   To review or appeal any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Building Department;
      (3)   To provide an administrative board, independent from all other
municipal boards or commissions, to act only pursuant to and in accordance with
the standards established by the legislative body to hear and decide appeals
which are to be tried over again from the beginning, (de novo); and
      (4)   That decisions and the granting of variances will sustain the
constitutionality of the chapter and to be in compliance with the objectives of
good planning.
   (B)   Membership. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members
appointed by the Mayor with the approval of a majority of members elected to
Council serving for a term of five years.
   (C)   Officers, duties and general powers.
      (1)   The Board shall elect from among its members, a Chairperson and a
Vice-Chairperson. The Board shall adopt rules and regulations not inconsistent
with this chapter, as may be necessary to carry into effect the duties, powers
and responsibilities conferred herein.
      (2)   The powers, duties and responsibilities of the Board shall be:
         (a)   To hear appeals and decide any issues involving the application
of impartial considerations and judgments in regard to decisions made by the
Building Department or any other administrative officer on matters relating to
this chapter, for relief from any order, requirement, decision or
determination, including the refusal, granting or revocation of permits;
         (b)   To hear and decide upon applications for variations from the
terms provided in this chapter subject to the standards set forth in division
(H) below; and
         (c)   To hear and decide all matters specifically referred to it for
decisions in other sections of this chapter.
   (D)   Procedures on appeals.
      (1)   An appeal from any decisions of the Building Department or other
officers with regard to an application for a building permit, issuance of a
stop order, specific referral or some similar action, may be made to the Board
by any person believing himself or herself aggrieved or by any officer of the
village affected by any such decision.
      (2)   To be considered, the appellant shall, within 15 days after the
date of such decision, file in the office of the Building Department, a notice
of appeal specifying the decision or section of this chapter from which the
appeal is sought, the error alleged and all necessary data in accordance with
the form provided by the village.
   (E)   Meetings and hearings.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall schedule regular monthly, or
semi-monthly meetings, which can be cancelled if no appeals are filed. Special
hearings can be arranged at the call of the Chairperson.
      (2)   The Board shall act within 30 days after receipt of all required
information, and failure to act within such period shall be considered approval
of the appeal unless an extension of time is mutually agreed upon. Before
making any decisions on an appeal, the Board shall hold a public hearing or
hearings, at such time as shall be determined by the Board itself. Notices of
the time and place of hearings shall be mailed to the appellant and to the
affected property owners as they appear in the current records of the County
Auditor or be published for two successive weeks prior thereto, in a newspaper
of general circulation in the village.
      (3)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals de novo and shall review or
appeal any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Building
Department in the enforcement or application of the chapter. Within its powers,
the Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify any such order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and shall make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made
under the circumstances and to that end, shall have all powers of the officer
from whose decision the appeal is taken.
      (4)   All hearings conducted by the Board shall be open to the public.
Any person may appear and testify at a hearing, either in person or by duly
authorized agent or attorney. The Board shall have the power to subpoena and
require the attendance of witnesses, to administer oaths, to compel testimony,
to produce reports, findings and other evidence pertinent to any issue referred
to it for decision.
   (F)   Quorum and vote.
      (1)   The concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
duly authorized administrative officer.
      (2)   A member of the Board shall not be qualified to vote if he or she
has not attended the public hearing, or if he or she has a direct or indirect
interest in the issue appealed.
   (G)   Record of decisions. The Board is authorized to engage the services of
a secretary, and shall provide a detailed report of all its proceedings,
setting forth its reasons for decisions, the vote of each member participating
therein and the absence of a member of his or her failure to vote. Immediately
following the Board’s decision, such record including conditions prescribed by
the Board shall be filed and posted for two weeks in the offices of the
Building Department. The report shall be open to public inspection and copies
shall be mailed forthwith to each interested party noted therein.
   (H)   Reasons for granting variances. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have
the power, in specific cases, to vary the application of certain provisions of
this chapter in order that the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare may be safeguarded and substantial justice done for the following
reasons:
      (1)   Where the literal application of the provisions of this chapter
would result in unnecessary hardships peculiar to the property involved and not
based on conditions created by the owner: (a theoretical loss or limiting
possibilities of economic advantage are general hardships, not unnecessary
hardships);
      (2)   Where other exceptional circumstances or conditions such as
topographical or geological conditions, or type of adjoining development, are
only applicable to the property involved or to the intended use of the property
and do not apply to other property within the same zone unless the same
exceptional circumstances prevail;
      (3)   Where granting of a variance will not be materially detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to the property or improvements to the
neighborhood in which the property is located; and
      (4)   That the granting of a variance will not be contrary to the general
purpose, intent and objectives of this chapter. When appealing for a variance
or modification, the appellant shall state and substantiate his or her claim
that each of the four conditions listed above exists, and the Board shall make
a finding on each of the four conditions as they apply in each specific case as
a prerequisite for the granting of the variance or modification.
   (I)   Lapse of variances. A variance once granted shall not be withdrawn or
changed unless there is a change of circumstances, or if, after the expiration
of one year, no substantial construction is done in accordance with the terms
and conditions for which such variance was granted, the Building Department
shall give a notice in writing, and 30 days thereafter, the variance shall be
deemed null and void, and all regulations governing said premises in question
shall revert to those in effect before the variance was granted.
   (J)   Appeals to Court. A person aggrieved by a decision of said Board may,
within 30 days after the filing of such decision, appeal to the Court of Common
Pleas of the county. Such appeals may be either on questions of law, or on
questions of fact. Any appeal based in whole or in part upon questions of fact
shall be conducted de novo, and the appellant shall be entitled to request and
have a jury to determine the issues of fact.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970)
§ 155.53 AMENDING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Initiation of zoning amendments.
      (1)   The Council, either on petition of a property owner, recommendation
of the Planning Commission, or on its own initiative, may amend or change the
number, shape, area or regulations of or within any zone or district, but no
such amendment or change shall become effective unless the proposed amendment
or change is first submitted to or considered by the Planning Commission for
its approval, disapproval or recommendation.
      (2)   The Commission shall be allowed a reasonable time, to be not less
than 30 days after referral or submittal, for consideration and report.
   (B)   Planning Commission action. It shall be the duty of the Secretary of
the Planning Commission to forthwith file with the Clerk of Council a report of
the action and recommendation of the Commission with respect to any referral or
submittal. Failure to file such report within 60 days after referral or the
time otherwise provided shall be accepted as and be deemed an approval of the
proposed change or amendment submitted.
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Before any ordinance, measure or regulation amending or changing
the number, shape, area or regulations of or within any zone or district may be
passed, the Council shall hold a public hearing thereon. It shall publish
notice of such hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the village,
adequately describing the nature of the pending legislation, once a week for
two consecutive weeks on the same day of the week, the first of such
publication to take place not less than 30 days prior to the public hearing.
      (2)   During such 30 days, the text or copy of the text of such
ordinance, measure, regulation or proposed change, together with the maps or
plans or copies thereof forming part of or referred to in such ordinance,
measure, regulation or proposed change, and the maps, plans, and reports
submitted by the Planning Commission, shall be on file for public examination
in the officer of the Clerk of Council.
   (D)   Action by Council.
      (1)   No such ordinance, measure, regulation or proposed change, which
violates, differs from or departs from the plans or report submitted by the
Planning Commission, shall take effect unless passed or approved by not less
than two-thirds of the membership of the Council.
      (2)   Any such ordinance, measure or proposed change may be amended by
majority vote, prior to the voting thereon by the Council, without further
notice or postponement if such amendment shall be germane to the subject matter
and does not violate, or differ, or depart from the report of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   Injunction. No person shall erect, construct, alter or repair or
maintain any building or structure, or use any land in violation of this
chapter or the regulations enacted pursuant thereto. In the event of any such
violation, or imminent threat thereof, upon the request of the Mayor or
Council, the Village Solicitor, on behalf of the village, shall institute a
suit for injunction to prevent or terminate such violation.
      (2)   Violation of Planning Commission regulation. Whoever willfully
violates any rule or regulation adopted by the Council or the Planning
Commission shall forfeit and pay not less than $10 nor more than $50 to be
recovered with costs in a civil action brought by the Solicitor in the name of
the village for the use thereof. Each day such violation shall continue and
shall constitute a separate forfeiture.
      (3)   Transfer of common land prohibited. When common land, a street,
recreation area, part or other open land has been set aside, with the approval
of the Planning Commission for the exclusive use, in common by abutting or
other owners or occupants of land, the sale, transfer or change of use of such
land or any part thereof is prohibited, unless the Planning Commission has
given its prior consent thereto, which shall be confirmed by action of the
Council. Whoever willfully violates this division (A)(3) shall forfeit and pay
to the village not less than $10 nor more than $50 as determined by the
Council. Such sum shall be recovered, with costs, in an action brought by the
Solicitor in the name of the village and for the use thereof.
      (4)   Penalties. Any person who shall:
         (a)   Use or occupy any land or place, build, erect, alter, remodel,
restore or rebuild thereon any building or structure, or permit any building or
structure to remain on such land or use, occupy or operate such building or
structure, in any way or for any use or purpose which is not permitted by the
provision of this chapter;
         (b)   Aid, assist or participate with any person placing, building,
erecting, altering, remodeling, restoring or rebuilding any building or
structure which is not permitted by the provisions of this chapter;
         (c)   Violate or fail to perform any condition, stipulation or
safeguard set forth in any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or continue
to use or occupy the premises or building as previously authorized by such
permit beyond the duration limit therein stated;
         (d)   Refuse to permit the Building Department or his or her assistant
to enter any premises in the village to investigate a reported violation of the
provisions of this chapter;
         (e)   Knowingly make any materially false statement of fact in an
application to the Building Department or his or her assistants for a permit or
in any plans or specifications submitted in relation to any application under
this chapter; or
         (f)   Being an owner or lessee of any premises, knowingly suffer or
permit a violation of this chapter to occur or exist on such premises shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor by each such action or omission and upon conviction
thereof shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $50. Each day during
which such act, violation or omission shall be done, committed, omitted or
continued shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Parking of vehicles. Whoever violates §
155.30(L) shall be fined not more than $100, or imprisoned for not more than
ten days, or both.
(Ord. 656-70, passed 2-16-1970; Ord. 797-80, passed 8-18-1980)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   [Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                      Code Section
1.01                              10.01
1.02                              10.02
1.05                              10.02
1.14                              10.03
1.15                              10.03
1.23                              10.05
1.42                              10.03
1.43                              10.03
1.44                              10.02
1.45                              10.03
1.46                              10.03
1.47                              10.18
1.48                              10.18
1.49                              10.18
1.50                              10.07
1.51                              10.06
1.52                              10.06
1.54                              10.04
1.55                              10.05
1.56                              10.05
1.57                              10.04
1.58                              10.04
1.59                              10.02
Title 47                          37.060
121.22                            37.209
125.30                            37.060
131.03                            152.04
135.03                            36.33
135.08                            36.33
135.14                            36.33
135.14(B)(1)                      36.33
135.14(B)(2)                      36.33
135.18                            36.33
135.45                            36.33
                                  10.16,
149.43                            35.07,
                                  37.209
149.43(A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(y) 35.01,
                                  35.02
191.15                            37.999
305.31 to 305.41                  37.002
701.01                            10.02
709.023                           37.060
713.01 to 713.27                  32.03
713.04                            32.03
715.67                            10.99
715.691                           37.127
715.70                            37.060,
                                  37.127
715.71                            37.060,
                                  37.127
715.72                            37.127
715.74                            37.060
                                  37.001,
Chapter 718                       37.060,
                                  37.205,
                                  37.209
718                               37.045,
                                  37.048
718.01(L)                         37.060
718.012                           37.076
718.03                            37.060
718.031                           37.110
718.06                            37.031
718.11                            37.060
718.11(A)(4)                      37.209
718.12                            37.060
718.18                            37.208
718.19                            37.060
718.23                            37.060
718.30                            37.211
718.36                            37.060
718.37                            37.060
718.38                            37.060
718.691                           37.060
Chapter 727                       92.22
Chapter 729                       92.22
731.17                            31.07
731.231                           10.06
731.29 to 731.41                  37.002
731.30                            37.002
731.54                            91.07
733.262                           33.31,
                                  37.016
735.15                            32.03
735.273                           52.21
737.17                            34.04
1332.32                           36.15
Chapter 1705                      37.060
Chapter 1706                      37.060
Chapter 2151                      130.99
Chapter 2506                      153.54
2923.11                           30.03
2923.126(B)(7)                    30.03
2925.03(J)                        36.01
2925.03(K)                        36.01
2929.28                           94.99
2933.43                           36.02
3501.28                           37.060
3501.36                           37.060
3733.01                           153.15,
                                  153.66
Chapter 3770                      37.060
3770.21                           37.060
3772.01                           37.060,
                                  37.092
3793.01                           96.16
4313.02                           37.060
4501.01                           93.30
4503.02                           37.002
4503.04                           37.002
4503.07                           37.002
4503.10                           37.002
4503.16                           37.002
4503.17                           37.002
4503.171                          37.002
4503.18                           37.002
4503.41                           37.002
4503.43                           37.002
4504.04                           37.002
4504.06                           37.002
4504.15                           37.002
4504.17                           37.002
4504.171                          37.002
4504.172                          37.002
4511.02                           10.16
4511.19                           70.04
4511.211                          152.07
4511.432                          152.07
4737.05 to 4737.12                91.04
4927.01                           37.107
5701                              37.060
5703.056                          37.060,
                                  37.208
5703.47                           37.092
5709.61 through 5709.69           151.01
5709.632                          151.01
5709.68                           151.01
5709.83                           151.01
5709.85                           151.01
5717.011                          37.060,
                                  37.209
5727.01                           37.107
5727.24                           37.060
5727.30                           37.060
5739.08                           37.999
5739.08 et seq.                   37.015
5739.09                           37.999
Chapter 5745                      37.060,
                                  37.106
5747.01                           37.060
                                  37.110,
5747.08(G)                        37.140,
                                  37.143
5747.17                           37.092
Chapter 6111                      91.04
Chapter 37341                     91.04
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
531      1-19-1959   33.32
537      - -1960     70.04
536      10-17-1960  50.02
566      6-27-1964   36.04
571      3-8-1965    32.03
                     155.01—
                     155.03,
                     155.15—
                     155.19,
656-70   2-16-1970   155.30—
                     155.33,
                     155.50—
                     155.53,
                     155.99
698      5-7-1973    71.40—
                     71.50
696      6-4-1973    154.01—
                     154.11
697      6-4-1973    154.25—
                     154.28
                     98.01—
707      3-4-1974    98.05,
                     98.99
728      5-5-1975    52.01
                     110.01—
737      12-15-1975  110.03,
                     110.99
744-76   8-2-1976    96.30,
                     96.99
747-76   12-6-1976   52.02,
                     52.99
754-77   6-20-1977   34.05
775-79   1-15-1979   130.04,
                     130.99
782-79   12-3-1979   96.30
795-80   7-21-1980   34.35
797-80   8-18-1980   155.30,
                     155.99
824-81   11-2-1981   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
836-82   4-5-1982    52.05
837-82   5-17-1982   34.04
840-82   8-16-1982   155.34
                     93.30—
841-82   9-20-1982   93.32,
                     93.99
845-82   11-15-1982  130.03,
                     130.99
849-82   12-20-1982  33.30
                     52.20—
852-83   2-7-1983    52.30,
                     52.99
853-83   3-7-1983    34.03
859-83   6-6-1983    Ch. 74, Sch. I
861-83   8-1-1983    51.04
                     97.01—
866-83   9-19-1983   97.05,
                     97.99
863-88   10-30-1983  Ch. 73, Sch. I
869-83   12-5-1983   52.04
872-83   12-19-1983  33.30
889-84   7-16-1984   32.02
892-84   8-6-1984    Ch. 74, Sch. I
898-84   12-17-1984  33.30
910-85   5-6-1985    Ch. 74, Sch. I
911-85   5-20-1985   Ch. 73, Sch. II
914-85   8-5-1985    Ch. 73, Sch. I
922-85   12-16-1985  Ch. 74, Sch. I
926–86 1-21-1986   33.30
931-86   5-19-1986   51.03
939-86   11-17-1986  130.02
938-86   12-15-1986  98.04
942-86   12-15-1986  33.30
946-86   12-15-1986  34.02
953-87   6-1-1987    Ch. 74, Sch. I
958-87   8-17-1987   37.002
963-87   11-16-1987  33.30
965-17   1-4-1988    Ch. 74, Sch. I
972-88   6-20-1988   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
                     153.01—
                     153.04,
                     153.15,
                     153.30—
973-88   8-15-1988   153.35,
                     153.50—
                     153.54,
                     153.65—
                     153.67,
                     153.99
975-88   9-19-1988   155.15
976-88   9-19-1988   155.35
979-88   9-19-1988   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
982-88   12-5-1988   33.30
987A-89  1-3-1989    33.30
886-84   4-16-1989   90.02,
                     90.99
990-89   5-1-1989    96.30,
                     96.99
                     92.15—
991-89   5-1-1989    92.26,
                     92.99
995      7-17-1989   Ch. 74, Sch. I
1005-89  11-15-1989  36.01
1006-89  11-15-1989  36.02
1007-89  11-15-1989  36.03
1002-89  12-4-1989   Ch. 74, Sch. I
1004-89  12-4-1989   33.30
1009-89  12-4-1989   37.002
1008-89  1-2-1990    Ch. 73, Sch. I
1012-90  2-5-1990    Ch. 74, Sch. I
                     96.01,
1000-90  3-19-1990   96.02,
                     96.99
1015-90  4-2-1990    95.01
1020-90  5-7-1990    Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
1021-90  6-18-1990   Ch. 74, Sch. I
1027-90  1-7-1991    93.15,
                     93.99
1030-90  1-7-1991    Ch. 74, Sch. II
1044-91  12-16-1991  Ch. 74, Sch. II
1049-92  4-20-1992   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
1051-92  8-17-1992   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1057-92  12-21-1992  Ch. 73, Sch. I
1062-93  2-16-1993   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1066-93  4-5-1993    Ch. 73, Sch. I
1073-93  6-21-1993   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1076-93  8-2-1993    36.16
1079A-93 9-7-1993    Ch. 73, Sch. I
1077-93  9-20-1993   33.30
1082-93  12-22-1993  Ch. 73, Sch. V
1084A-94 1-18-1994   150.065—
                     150.069
1083-94  2-22-1994   Ch. 74, Sch. I
1085-94  4-18-1994   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1087-94  5-2-1994    Ch. 74, Sch. I
1090-94  5-16-1994   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1095-94  10-17-1994  Ch. 73, Sch. I
1096-94  12-19-1994  Ch. 74, Sch. II
1098-94  1-17-1995   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1101-95  2-6-1995    Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1104-95  4-3-1995    Ch. 74, Sch. I
1108-95  5-15-1995   32.01
1118-95  8-7-1995    70.03,
                     70.99
1119-95  8-21-1995   Ch. 74, Sch. I
1129A-96 3-4-1996    51.02,
                     51.99
1132-96  4-15-1996   51.01
1133-96  5-20-1996   Ch. 74, Sch. I
1134-96  6-3-1996    96.45
1144-96  6-17-1996   150.045—
                     150.051
1147-96  9-3-1996    33.30
1152     12-2-1996   70.02
1161-97  5-5-1997    Ch. 74, Sch. II
1166-97  7-7-1997    70.02,
                     70.99
1169-97  9-15-1997   34.01
1192-98  8-3-1998    90.01,
                     90.99
1194-98  9-8-1998    33.30
1196-98  11-2-1998   111.01—
                     111.17
1197-98  11-16-1998  96.30,
                     96.99
1204-99  4-19-1999   30.01
1215-99  8-2-1999    70.04,
                     70.99
1217-99  10-4-1999   70.04,
                     70.99
                     50.15—
1230-00  6-5-2000    50.18,
                     50.99
1233-00  8-21-2000   70.01,
                     70.99
1236-00  11-8-2000   33.30
1142-00  1-2-2001    31.01—
                     31.07
1244-01  2-20-2001   33.01
1260-02  3-4-2002    Ch. 73, Sch. I
1262-02  3-18-2002   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
1263-02  4-1-2002    Ch. 73, Sch. III
1265-02  5-20-2002   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1266-02  5-20-2002   33.16
1281-02  9-16-2002   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1282-02  10-21-2002  92.19,
                     92.99
1285-02  12-2-2002   33.30
1287-02  12-16-2002  34.20
1288-02  1-21-2003   33.01
1290-03  3-17-2003   33.01
1291-03  5-5-2003    33.01
1304-03  8-25-2003   111.30—
                     111.33
1309-03  11-17-2003  33.01
1310-03  12-1-2003   50.16
1316-04  5-15-2004   31.01
1315-04  5-17-2004   151.01
1321-04  7-19-2004   33.31
1327-05  1-18-2005   33.30
1331-05  5-2-2005    Ch. 74, Sch. I
1336-05  7-18-2005   33.01
1335-05  9-19-2005   Ch. 74, Sch. II
1343-06  3-20-2006   33.01
                     37.015—
1348-06  6-19-2006   37.032,
                     37.999
1354-07  2-5-2007    33.30
1358-07  4-16-2007   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
1361-07  5-7-2007    Ch. 73, Sch. VII
                     152.01—
1362-07  6-4-2007    152.07,
                     152.99
1367-07  10-1-2007   36.15
1387-08  - -2008     Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1371-08  3-17-2008   35.01—
                     35.10
1380-08  7-21-2008   Ch. 73, Sch. I
1383-08  9-9-2008    Ch. 73, Sch. I
1385-08  9-9-2008    Ch. 74, Sch. II
1388-08  12-1-2008   33.30
1394-09  3-16-2009   51.15
1393-09  3-16-2009   52.46
1399-09  8-7-2009    91.01,
                     91.02
1400-09  12-7-2009   33.30
1405-10  5-3-2010    33.01
1411-10  10-18-2010  33.15
                     50.15—
1412-10  11-15-2010  50.18,
                     50.99
1415-11  2-22-2011   155.18
                     91.01—
1425-11  6-6-2011    91.07,
                     91.99
1424-11  7-18-2011   Ch. 73, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
1428-11  12-5-2011   33.30
1432-12  2-6-2012    36.48
1437-12  5-7-2012    33.30
1436-12  6-4-2012    93.99
1447-12  11-19-2012  52.45
1448-12  11-19-2012  52.03
                     71.25—
1462-13  10-7-2013   71.29,
                     71.99
1467-13  12-2-2013   33.30
1482-14  5-19-2014   92.01
1484-14  10-6-2014   70.02
1485-14  11-3-2014   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
1486-14  11-3-2014   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
1488-14  12-1-2014   33.01
1494-15  2-2-2015    52.03
1505-15  7-29-2015   130.01,
                     130.99
1510-15  10-5-2015   Ch. 73, Sch. VIII
                     37.045—
                     37.060,
                     37.075—
                     37.077,
                     37.090—
                     37.092,
                     37.105—
                     37.110,
                     37.125—
1507-15  11-2-2015   37.128,
                     37.140—
                     37.145,
                     37.160,
                     37.175,
                     37.176,
                     37.190—
                     37.193,
                     37.205—
                     37.212,
                     37.999
1511-15  11-16-2015  33.30
1527-16  9-6-2016    37.090,
                     37.140
1533-17  3-20-2017   Ch. 73, Sch. IV
1535-17  5-1-2017    33.30
1541-18  1-2-2018    Ch. 73, Sch. VII
1542-18  1-2-2018    Ch. 73, Sch. VII
1543-18  1-2-2018    Ch. 73, Sch. VII
1540-17  2-5-2018    37.047
1544-18  3-19-2018   155.15
1546-18  3-19-2018   Ch. 73, Sch. VII
1548-18  5-10-2018   33.30
                     72.01—
                     72.03,
1549-18  7-2-2018    72.99,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. I,
                     Ch. 74, Sch. II
1550-18  8-6-2018    36.47
1551-18  8-6-2018    36.46
1553-18  8-20-2018   71.01—
                     71.10
1561-19  3-18-2019   30.03
                     93.01,
1563-19  6-17-2019   93.02,
                     93.99
1564-19  7-15-2019   50.01
                     150.001,
1565-19  7-15-2019   150.002,
                     150.999
1567-19  7-15-2019   52.03
                     150.030—
1568-19  7-15-2019   150.033,
                     150.999
1570-19  8-19-2019   30.02
                     90.30—
1569-19  10-7-2019   90.33,
                     90.99
1572-19  10-7-2019   150.015—
                     150.018
1575-19  11-18-2019  37.001
1593-20  - -2020     155.17
1579-20  5-18-2020   36.30—
                     36.33
1582-20  6-1-2020    36.45
1584-20  8-3-2020    51.15
1585-20  8-3-2020    52.03
1588-20  9-8-2020    155.15
1589-20  9-8-2020    Ch. 73, Sch. VII
1590-20  9-8-2020    150.080,
                     150.999
                     152.03,
1592-20  10-5-2020   152.05,
                     152.08
1594-20  10-5-2020   Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                     90.15,
1595-20  10-5-2020   90.16,
                     90.99
                     96.15—
1598-20  12-7-2020   96.19,
                     96.99
1599-20  12-7-2020   Ch. 73, Sch. III,
                     Ch. 73, Sch. VI
                     94.01—
1600-20  12-7-2020   94.03,
                     94.99
1604-20  1-4-2021    93.32,
                     93.99
1610-21  2-1-2021    51.16
1613-21  2-16-2021   155.02,
                     155.03
1611-21  3-15-2021   Ch. 73, Sch. III
                     91.01—
1617-21  5-3-2021    91.07,
                     91.99
                     37.106,
1642-23  12-18-2023  37.143,
                     37.160
                    
 
