PEMBERVILLE, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement Pages contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1681, passed 11-19-2024
State legislation current through 6-26-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
Ordinance No. 1612
Passed December 21, 2021
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF PEMBERVILLE,
OHIO, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS the present general and permanent ordinance of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS the Acts of the Legislature and the State of Ohio empower and authorize
the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify, and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form: and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision, and codification of the ordinances of the
Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGESLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF PEMBERVILLE:
SECTION 1: The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of Pemberville,
Ohio."
SECTION 2: Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following Titles:
   Table of Contents
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   TITLE Ill: ADMINISTRATION
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   INDEX
SECTION 3: All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part
in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedicating of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
SECTION 4: Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinance in the Office of the Clerk.
SECTION 5: Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties, and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
SECTION 6: This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety, and general welfare of
the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision on
this 21st day of December 2021.
                        /S/
                        Mayor
Attest:
/S/
Fiscal Officer
First reading 12-7-2021
Second reading 12-21-2021
Third reading Rules suspended
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
   
10.19   Adoption of Ohio Basic Code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“municipal code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances”, or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter, and section headings
do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read as
“and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of Pemberville.
   COUNTY. Wood County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the world wide web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Village Council of Pemberville.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. When used in
this code, shall denote the municipality irrespective of its population or
legal classification.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating
to signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular;
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders; and
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above, LEGAL HOLIDAY means
the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968”, 5 U.S.C. §
6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR NOTICE
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not,
except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions, or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the legislative
authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the legislative authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the
latest in date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates
language deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted
by an earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted, or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add,
or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: ....”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
   § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   Statutory reference:
       Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the state and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the legislative authority, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF OHIO BASIC CODE.
   (A)   American Legal Publishing’s Ohio Basic Code, 2021 Edition, as reviewed
and approved by the Legislative Authority, is hereby adopted and enacted. Any
prior version of the Ohio Basic Code which may have been previously adopted by
the municipality is hereby repealed as obsolete and is hereby replaced in its
entirety by the Ohio Basic Code, 2021 Edition.
   (B)   One copy of American Legal Publishing’s Ohio Basic Code, 2021 Edition,
certified as correct by the Mayor and Clerk of the Legislative Authority, as
required by R.C. § 731.23, shall be kept in its initial form on file in the
office of the Clerk of the municipality and retained as a permanent ordinance
record of the municipality. The Clerk of the municipality is authorized and
directed to publish a summary of all new matters contained in the Code of
Ordinances, as required by R.C. § 731.23. Such summary is attached to the
ordinance codified herein and marked as “Exhibit A”.
   (C)   All ordinances and resolutions or parts thereof which are in conflict
or inconsistent with any provision of the Ohio Basic Code, 2021 Edition, as
adopted in division (A) hereof, are hereby repealed as of the effective date of
the ordinance incorporated in this section, except as follows.
      (1)   The enactment of the Ohio Revised Code, 2021 Edition, shall not be
construed to affect a right or liability accrued or incurred under any
legislative provision prior to the effective date of such enactment, or an
action or proceeding for the enforcement of such right or liability. Such
enactment shall not be construed to relieve any person from punishment for an
act committed in violation of any such legislative provision, nor to affect an
indictment or prosecution thereof. For such purposes, any such legislative
provision shall continue in full force notwithstanding its repeal for the
purpose of revision and codification.
      (2)   The repeal provided above shall not affect:
         (a)   The grant or creation of a franchise, license, right, easement,
or privilege;
         (b)   The purchase, sale, lease, or transfer of property;
         (c)   The appropriation or expenditure of money or promise or
guarantee of payment;
         (d)   The assumption of any contract or obligation;
         (e)   The issuance and delivery of any bonds, obligations, or other
instruments of indebtedness;
         (f)   The levy or imposition of taxes, assessments, or charges;
         (g)   The establishment, naming, vacating, or grade level of any
street or public way;
         (h)   The dedication of property or plat approval;
         (i)   The annexation or detachment of territory;
         (j)   Any legislation enacted subsequent to the adoption of this
section; and
         (k)   Any legislation specifically superseding the provisions of the
Ohio Basic Code.
   (D)   Whenever reference is made in any documents, publication, or signs of
the municipality, including, but not limited to, traffic tickets and traffic-
control signs, to a section as it existed in a former edition of the Ohio Basic
Code, the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as
subsequently amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered.
(Ord. 1603, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATION
      
31.   FUNDS AND POLICIES
      
32.   INCOME TAX
      
33.   PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE ORGANIZATION
Section
Municipal Employment Positions
   
30.01   Positions identified
   
30.02   Village Solicitor
   
30.03   Village Fiscal Officer
   
30.04   Police Chief
   
30.05   Police Sergeant
   
30.06   Police Officers
   
30.07   Part-time Police Officers
   
30.08   Uniforms and equipment
   
30.09   Streets, Lands, and Buildings Superintendent
   
30.10   Streets, Lands, and Buildings Associate
   
30.11   Electric Superintendent
   
30.12   Electrical Lineman
   
30.13   Water Superintendent
   
30.14   Sewer Superintendent
   
30.15   Part-time Utility Associate
   
30.16   Back-up Operator
   
30.17   Full-time Utility Associate
   
30.18   BPA Clerk
   
30.19   Zoning Inspector
   
30.20   Clerk of the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
30.21   Deputy Fiscal Officer
   
30.22   Part-time general laborers and officer help
   
30.23   Swimming pool employees
   
30.24   Pool Manager
   
30.25   Insurance eligibility
   
30.26   Physical examinations
   
30.27   Public meetings and compensation
   
30.28   Emergency call outs
   
30.29   Compensatory time
   
30.30   Health insurance
   
30.31   OPER and OP&F contributions
   
30.32   Public Employees Deferred Compensation Program
Village Tree Commission
   
30.45   Establishment of Commission
   
30.46   Terms of office
   
30.47   Compensation
   
30.48   Duties and responsibilities
   
30.49   Officers
   
30.50   Funding
MUNICIPAL EMPLOYMENT POSITIONS
§ 30.01 POSITIONS IDENTIFIED.
   Municipal positions in the village that may be filled shall hereafter
include a Village Solicitor, a Village Fiscal Officer, a Police Chief, a
permanent part-time Police Sergeant, full-time Police Officers, part-time
Police Officers, a Streets, Lands, and Buildings Superintendent, a Streets,
Lands, and Buildings Associate, an Electric Superintendent, a Electrical
Lineman, a Water Superintendent, a Sanitary and Storm Sewer Superintendent,
Wastewater Treatment Plant Operator - Level II, a Utility Associate, a Back-up
Operator, Backflow Prevention Technician, a permanent part-time BPA Clerk, a
permanent part-time Deputy Fiscal Officer, a Zoning Inspector, a Zoning Clerk,
part-time community pool personnel, seasonal full-time Pool Manager, part-time
general laborers, and office help. Note: regular part-time employees shall
receive no fringe benefits, no vacation, no personal days, no sick leave, or
anything else other than the hourly rate.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.02 VILLAGE SOLICITOR.
   The Village Solicitor shall be appointed by the Village Council, and shall
serve until his or her successor is duly appointed and approved. The Solicitor
shall be an employee of the village. The Solicitor shall be responsible for
attending one Council meeting per month, and his or her salary shall include
all telephone calls, written or verbal, and personnel opinions, all with
respect to members of the Village Council and the Mayor or employees of the
village. In addition, the Solicitor shall be paid on an hourly basis at the
rate for all matters concerning litigation in courts or public agencies,
bonding services, assessment issued, real estate searches, or personnel
dispute, or claims that may lead to formal action before an agency or court of
law. The entire amount due the public employee retirement system (PERS) of the
state shall be payable by the Solicitor and deducted from his or her bi-weekly
pay for PERS coverage. The Solicitor shall not be eligible for vacation accrual
or sick time, but shall be eligible for the village medical insurance plan. In
the event the Solicitor chooses to participate in the village medical insurance
plan, he or she shall be responsible for the entire cost thereof and the
premium shall be deducted from his or her salary as aforesaid.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.03 VILLAGE FISCAL OFFICER.
   The Village Fiscal Officer shall be responsible for all financial matters of
the village, oversee, review, and coordinate the work of the Deputy Fiscal
Officer, including payroll, village income tax, and other office personnel. The
Village Fiscal Officer attends Council meetings, records minutes, prepares
ordinances, and coordinates office activities. Additional duties may be
assigned as prescribed by operational needs of the village.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.04 POLICE CHIEF.
   The Police Chief shall have such duties as prescribed by the Police Chief
contract with the village and the Ohio Revised Code. The Police Chief shall
report to the Mayor and the Village Council. The Police Chief shall be on duty
and on call 24 hours per day.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.05 POLICE SERGEANT.
   The permanent part-time Police Sergeant shall have such duties as are
prescribed by the Ohio Revised Code and the Mayor and be under the supervision
of the Police Chief. The Police Sergeant shall directly supervise all part-time
police personnel and report directly to the Police Chief. In the Police Chief’s
absence, the Police Sergeant shall assume command of the Police Department. The
Police Sergeant shall be on duty as prescribed by the operational needs of the
Department.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.06 POLICE OFFICERS.
   The full-time Police Officer shall have such duties as prescribed by the
Ohio Revised Code and be under the supervision of the Police Chief and the
Mayor.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019; Ord. 1593, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 30.07 PART-TIME POLICE OFFICERS.
   Part-time officers shall have such duties as prescribed by the Ohio Revised
Code and be under the supervision of the Police Chief. Part-time Police
Officers shall receive no fringe benefits, no vacation, no personal days, no
sick leave, or anything else other than the hourly rate, except where
prescribed by state law.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019; Ord. 1593, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 30.08 UNIFORMS AND EQUIPMENT.
   Any full-time or part-time Police Officer shall be supplied by the village
with necessary uniforms of three short-sleeved shirts, two long-sleeved shirts,
three pairs of pants, two summer uniforms, shirts, and one universal jacket.
All other necessary equipment (i.e., weapon, leather gear) will be purchased by
the employee from an approved list authorized by the Police Chief. Any
departmental uniforms or equipment issued shall remain the property of the
village.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.09 STREETS, LANDS, AND BUILDINGS SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Streets, Lands, and Buildings Superintendent shall perform the
construction, maintenance, reconstruction, cleaning, and clearing of the public
streets, lands, and buildings within the corporation and such other similar
duties that he or she may be assigned. Additional duties may be assigned as
prescribed by operational needs of the village.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.10 STREETS, LANDS, AND BUILDINGS ASSOCIATE.
   The full-time Streets, Lands and Building Associate shall perform duties as
prescribed by the Streets, Lands, and Building Superintendent. Additional
duties may be assigned as prescribed by the operational needs of the village.
The Streets, Lands, and Buildings Associate shall report to the Streets, Lands,
and Buildings Superintendent.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.11 ELECTRIC SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Electric Superintendent shall maintain and operate the electric power
distribution system of the village. Additional duties may be assigned as
prescribed by operational needs of the village. In the absence of the Sewer
Superintendent and Water Superintendent, the Electric Superintendent shall
cover maintenance checks for both, the Water Plants and the Sewer Plant and
shall receive no more than three hours of overtime per day compensation.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.12 ELECTRICAL LINEMAN.
   The electrical lineman shall assist the Electrical Superintendant of the
village as needed. The Lineman’s credentials shall be maintained and up-graded
as required. Additional duties may be assigned as prescribed by the operational
needs of the village. The Lineman shall act in the place of the Electrical
Superintendant on routine tasks, in the absence of the Superintendant. The
Lineman shall report directly to the Electrical Superintendant or the Board of
Public Affairs.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.13 WATER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Water Superintendent shall maintain and operate the well fields, water
plants, and the water distribution system of the village. Additional duties may
be assigned as prescribed by the operational needs of the village. Weekend and
holiday equipment checks and maintenance shall be compensated at the rate of
overtime and shall not exceed two hours per day. In the absence of the Sewer
Superintendent, the Water Superintendent shall cover maintenance checks for the
sewer plan and shall receive one additional hour of overtime pay.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.14 SEWER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Sewer Superintendent is responsible for maintaining and operating the
sewage treatment plant, its collection system, and the storm water system in
the village. Weekend and holiday equipment checks and maintenance shall be
compensated at the rate of overtime and shall not exceed one hour per day. In
the absence of the Water Superintendent, the Sewer Superintendent shall cover
maintenance checks for the Water Plant and shall receive no more than two hours
of overtime compensation per day for a total of three hours per day. Additional
duties may be assigned as prescribed by operational needs of the village.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.15 PART-TIME UTILITY ASSOCIATE.
   The part-time Utility Associate will primarily work with the Utility
Departments as needed. Additional duties may be assigned as prescribed by the
operational needs of the village.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.16 BACK-UP OPERATOR.
   The Back-up Operator shall maintain and operate the well fields, water
plants, and the water distribution system of the village in the long-term
absence of the Water Superintendent or shall be responsible for maintaining and
operating the sewage treatment plant, its collection system, and the storm
water system of the village in the long-term absence of the Sewer
Superintendent.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.17 FULL-TIME UTILITY ASSOCIATE.
   The full-time Utility Associate will primarily work with the Utility
Departments as needed. Additional duties may be assigned as prescribed by the
operational needs of the village.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.18 BPA CLERK.
   The permanent part-time BPA Clerk is responsible for the billing and record
keeping for the village utilities. The BPA Clerk is to act as meeting recorder
for the Board of Public Affairs meetings. Additional duties may be assigned as
prescribed by operational needs of the village.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.19 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The inspector is to file all paper work pertaining to inspection and verify
that the work done is in compliance with ordinances and other building
requirements.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.20 CLERK OF THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   The Clerk is to attend the Zoning Board of Appeals meetings and record the
minutes and actions taken.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.21 DEPUTY FISCAL OFFICER.
   The permanent part-time Deputy Fiscal Officer shall keep personnel records
of all employees, prepare payroll, and shall be assigned duties within the
village relating to village income tax. The Deputy Fiscal Officer shall carry
out those duties assigned by the Village Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.22 PART-TIME GENERAL LABORERS AND OFFICER HELP.
   Part-time general laborers and office help shall receive compensation
ranging from prevailing minimum wage as established by law up to an amount
determined by Council. Part-time general laborers and office help shall receive
no fringe benefits, no vacation, no personal days, no sick leave or anything
else other than the hourly rate except where prescribed by state law.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.23 SWIMMING POOL EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The seasonal part-time pool helpers, pool cleaners, concession
workers, and swim team coaches working at the village swimming pool shall be
compensated at minimum wage per hour. At the beginning of each Pool Season, the
Pool Manager may designate up to two guards as Head Guard. Duties for the Head
Guard will assigned by the Pool Manager, and will include over-seeing daily
operations in the absence of the Manager, safety, cash control, and any other
duties prescribed by the operational needs of the pool.
   (B)   The swimming pool employees, including pool helpers, pool cleaners,
concession workers, swim team assistant coaches, and head guards, are seasonal
part-time.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.24 POOL MANAGER.
   The seasonal full-time Pool Manager is responsible for staffing, training,
scheduling, sales, day-to- day pool operations, safety, and cash control during
the pool season. Additional duties may be assigned as prescribed by operational
needs of the pool. Work schedule ranges from May 1 through Labor Day week.
Manager must have full lifeguard qualifications, plus some pool management
training or equivalent.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.25 INSURANCE ELIGIBILITY.
   Full-time employees will become eligible for coverage under the health and
dental insurance of the village after 90 days of successful employment.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.26 PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   All new full-time employees and permanent part-time employees operating
vehicles and equipment of the village shall have and pass a basic physical
examination, including drug screening, at a physician selected by the village,
prior to holding the position. All new full-time employees covered by the
state’s Police and Fire Pension Fund must pass the required physical
examination before they will hold a full- time position. This examination will
be conducted by a physician selected by the village.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.27 PUBLIC MEETINGS AND COMPENSATION.
   If at anytime an employee is requested to attend a public meeting under
official business, the employee shall not be at the meeting more than two
hours. This does not constitute a call out. Therefore, if an employee is
requested to be present for a public meeting, the employee shall use the hours
earned hour for hour before the end of said pay period of which the public
meeting took place as time off.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.28 EMERGENCY CALL OUTS.
   A minimum of two hours shall be compensated at the overtime rate for
emergency call outs.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.29 COMPENSATORY TIME.
   Any hours worked outside of those scheduled shall be compensated at a rate
of time and one-half or by compensatory time off. All full-time employees are
eligible for compensatory time and shall not keep more than 40 hours on the
books at any time. Employees may re-accumulate comp time up to 40 hours. Once
compensatory time is built up to 40 hours, the employees shall be paid overtime
for any hours worked outside of those scheduled. Compensatory time off can be
used throughout the year by the employee just like vacation time as outlined in
the Personnel Handbook with one exception, due to compensatory time being time
worked, any unused compensatory time shall be cashed out the second pay period
of December of each year. Compensatory time shall not be carried over to the
next year. The Department of Labor issued a new rule that updates the
regulations on salaried employees that are entitled to the minimum wage and
overtime protection of the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et
seq. Beginning December 1, 2016, the village shall pay overtime or provide comp
time to salary workers for overtime hours in excess of 40 per week.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.30 HEALTH INSURANCE.
   For health insurance purposes, full-time employees, regardless of single or
family coverage, shall pay 15% of their personal monthly health insurance
premium based on the selected village base plan. Employee may choose a buy-up
plan and shall pay the premium difference between the base plan and the buy-up
plan. An employee’s spouse who is eligible for group health insurance through
his or her own employer paid health insurance program will not be covered by
the selected village plan. The 15% deduction once established on the first
payroll of 2024 will remain the same amount for the 12-month deduction. The 15%
deduction will only change if the employee changes marital status, the number
of family members, or enrolls in Medicare. Employees who reach age 65 are
strongly urged to enroll in Medicare, Parts A & B, with their primary care from
Medicare and selecting a supplemental policy. The village may elect to pay 15%
for the supplemental policy at the recommendation of the Personnel and Finance
Committee and approval by the Village Council if the policy is found to be
financially beneficial to both the employee and village. Employee is urged to
work with the insurance broker to ensure the best possible outcome for
themselves.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019; Am. Ord. 1652, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 30.31 OPER AND OP&F CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The village shall pay 2% of the employee’s share of the contributions to the
OPER or OP&F. The payment of the village under this section constitutes a
payment of employee contributions which are made by the employer in lieu of
being made by the employee. The employee has no option to accept or receive the
money in cash.
(Ord. 1588, passed 12-17-2019)
§ 30.32 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts the state’s Public Employees Deferred
Compensation Program and extends to all eligible employees the opportunity to
join the Program.
   (B)   The Mayor be and hereby is authorized by the Village Council to
execute an agreement with the Board on terms and conditions which the Mayor
determines are in the best interest of the village, which agreement shall
authorize the Board to offer the Program to all eligible employees of the
village and thereafter to administer the Program on behalf of such employees.
(Ord. 673, passed 6-6-1978)
VILLAGE TREE COMMISSION
§ 30.45 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   The Village Tree Commission is hereby created and established for the
village. It shall consist of not less than seven members, nor more than nine
members, citizens and residents of the village area, one or more of whom shall
be a member of the Village Council, and all of whom shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the approval of Council. The Tree Commission shall have the right to
call in consultants as it sees fit.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986; Ord, 1034, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 30.46 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Term of office for each member shall be seven years, except that the initial
appointees shall serve terms of one, two, three, four, five, six, and seven
years, respectively, in such manner that one member’s term shall expire each
year. In the event that a vacancy shall occur, the Mayor shall appoint a
successor to complete an unexpired or expired term. Nothing in this subchapter
shall prohibit any member from serving successive terms.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986; Ord, 1034, passed 7-20-1993)
§ 30.47 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 30.48 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of the Commission to study, investigate,
counsel, and develop and/or update annually, and administer a written plan for
the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal, or disposition
of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public areas. Such
plan will be presented annually to the Village Council and upon acceptance and
approval shall constitute the official comprehensive village tree plan for the
village. The Commission, when requested by the Village Council, shall consider,
investigate, make finding, report, and recommend upon any special matter of
question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 30.49 OFFICERS.
   The Tree Commission shall have a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson, and such
other offices as the Commission shall determine. The Commission shall elect its
own officers, except that when a member is serving the seventh year of his or
her term, that member shall be Chairperson and when a member is serving the
sixth year of his or her term, that member shall be Vice-Chairperson. The
Commission shall make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its
proceedings. A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 30.50 FUNDING.
   All funding for the Village Tree Commission shall be approved by Council.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
CHAPTER 31: FUNDS AND POLICIES
Section
Funds
   
31.01   Electric system renewal and replacement fund
   
31.02   Water system renewal and replacement fund
   
31.03   Sewer Capital Improvement Fund
   
31.04   Storm Sewer Enterprise Fund
   
31.05   Fire damaged structures removal, repair, securing fund
Village Policies
   
31.20   Milage reimbursement
   
31.21   Public records policy
FUNDS
§ 31.01 ELECTRIC SYSTEM RENEWAL AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established in the village an Electric System Renewal and
Replacement Fund. Ten percent of all moneys received by the village for the
sale of electric energy shall be placed to the credit of this Fund monthly
until the balance is $100,000. After the balance of the Fund is $100,000, no
further moneys shall be placed in the Fund. At any time that the balance is
below $100,000, the 10% shall again be deposited to the Fund until the $100,000
Fund balance is again reached. The Fund shall be used only for the repair,
replacement, renewal, or improvement of the electrical distribution system of
the village, and after the balance is $100,000 or less, no disbursement from
the Fund shall be less than $5,000.
(Ord. 807, passed 11-15-1983)
§ 31.02 WATER SYSTEM RENEWAL AND REPLACEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby established in the village a Water System Renewal and
Replacement Fund. The Fund shall receive $7 per month for each water meter in
the village. The funds shall be used only for the repair, replacement, renewal,
or improvement of the water system of the village.
(Ord. 1239B, passed 10-15-2002; Ord. 1681, passed 11-19-2024)
§ 31.03 SEWER CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   A Sewer Capital Improvement Fund is hereby established for purposes of
holding appropriated funds for sewer capital improvement projects. Said account
to be funded from permanent improvement money allocated from the village income
tax receipts, and from other sources as approved by Village Council from time
to time in the amount of $25,000 per year.
(Ord. 1242, passed 12-3-2002)
§ 31.04 STORM SEWER ENTERPRISE FUND.
   The Storm Sewer Enterprise Fund is hereby established for purposes of
holding and disbursing fees charged from time to time for the benefit of storm
sewer management and operations by the Board of Public Affairs.
(Ord. 1389, passed 4-17-2007)
§ 31.05 FIRE DAMAGED STRUCTURES REMOVAL, REPAIR, SECURING FUND.
   The village is hereby authorized to utilize the procedure described in R.C.
§ 3929.86(c) and (d), whereby no insurance company doing business in the state
shall pay a claim of a named insured for fire damage to a structure located
within the village where the amount recoverable for the fire loss to the
structure under all policies exceeds $5,000, unless there is a compliance with
the following procedures.
   (A)   (1)   When the loss agreed to between the named insured or insureds
and the company or companies equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of
liability on all fire policies covering the building or structure, the
insurance company or companies, in accordance with R.C. § 715.26(F), shall
transfer from the insurance proceeds to the Clerk-Treasurer of the village
$1,000 for each $20,000 and each fraction of that amount of a claim, or, if at
the time of the proof of loss agreed to between the named insured or insureds
and the insurance company or companies the named insured or insureds have
submitted a contractor’s signed estimate of the costs of removing, repairing,
or securing the building or other structure, shall transfer from the insurance
proceeds the amount specified in the estimate.
      (2)   Such transfer of proceeds shall be on a pro rata basis by all
companies insuring the building or other structure. Policy proceeds remaining
after the transfer to the village shall be disbursed in accordance with the
policy terms.
      (3)   The named insured or insureds may submit a contractor’s signed
estimate of the costs of removing, repairing, or securing the building or other
structure after the transfer, and the designated officer shall return the
amount of the fund in excess of the estimate to the named insured or insureds,
provided that the village has not commenced to remove, repair, or secure the
building or other structure.
   (B)   (1)   Upon payment of the insurance proceeds to the village as
authorized by this section, the Clerk-Treasurer shall place the proceeds in a
separate fund to be used solely as security against the total cost of removing,
repairing, or securing incurred by the village pursuant to R.C. § 715.261.
      (2)   (a)   Transferring the funds as required in division (C) below, an
insurance company shall provide the village with the name and address of the
named insured or insureds, whereupon the village shall contact the named
insured or insureds, certify the proceeds have been received by the village,
and shall notify them that the following procedures will be followed: the fund
shall be returned to the named insured or insureds when repairs, removal, or
securing of the building or other structure has been completed and the required
proof received by the designated officer, if the village has not incurred any
costs for such repairs, removal or securing.
         (b)   If the village has incurred any costs for repairs, removal, or
securing of the building or other structure, such costs shall be paid to the
fund, and if excess funds remain, the village shall transfer the remaining
funds to the named insured or insureds.
         (c)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability
of a municipal corporation to recover any deficiency under R.C. § 715.261.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (B) shall be construed to prohibit the
municipal corporation and the named insured or insureds from entering into an
agreement that permits the transfer of funds to the named insured or insureds
if some other reasonable disposition has been negotiated.
   (C)   The Clerk-Treasurer of the village is hereby designated as the officer
authorized to carry out the duties of this section. The Clerk-Treasurer shall
file a certified copy of this section with the Superintendent of Insurance of
the state.
(Ord.852, passed 11-19-1985)
VILLAGE POLICIES
§ 31.20 MILAGE REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   The mileage reimbursement for persons providing their own automobile
transportation and traveling on authorized village business shall be as
established by federal guidelines for the Internal Revenue Service from time to
time.
   (B)   In order to claim mileage reimbursement, the village official or
employee shall furnish to the Clerk/Treasurer a statement setting forth the
date, miles traveled, town or origin and destination, and the nature of the
village business involved.
(Ord. 1297, passed 8-9-2004)
§ 31.21 PUBLIC RECORDS POLICY.
   The Model Public Records Policy established by the state’s Attorney General
is hereby adopted as the formal policy of the village.
(Ord. 1409, passed 11-20-2007)
CHAPTER 32: INCOME TAX
Section
General Provisions
   
32.001   Authority to levy tax
   
32.002   Purpose of tax; rate
   
32.003   Allocation of funds
   
32.004   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
   
32.005   Conflict of law
   
32.006   Definitions
Income Subject to Tax for Individuals
   
32.020   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
   
32.021   Domicile
   
32.022   Exemption for member or employee of general assembly and certain
judges
Collection at Source
   
32.035   Withholding from qualifying wages
   
32.036   Occasional entrant
   
32.037   Casino and video lottery terminals
Income Subject to Net Profit Tax
   
32.050   Determining tax for taxpayers who are not individuals
   
32.051   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
   
32.052   Consolidated federal income tax return
   
32.053   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in the state
   
32.054   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
32.055   Declaration of estimated tax
Credit for Tax Paid
   
32.070   Credit for tax paid to another municipality
   
32.071   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
   
32.072   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
   
32.073   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
Annual Return
   
32.085   Return and payment of tax
   
32.086   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
   
32.087   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
   
32.088   Extension of time to file
   
32.089   Amended returns
   
32.090   Refunds
   
32.091   Penalty, interest, fees, and charges
   
32.092   Audit
   
32.093   Rounding
Authority and Powers of the Tax Administrator
   
32.105   Authority and powers
   
32.106   Compromise of claim and payment over time
   
32.107   Right to examine
   
32.108   Requiring identifying information
   
32.109   Confidentiality
   
32.110   Fraud
   
32.111   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
32.112   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
32.113   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Board
   
32.114   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
32.115   Adoption of rules
   
32.116   Landlord reporting of tenant information
   
32.117   Collection after termination of ordinance
   
32.118   State law adopted
 
   
32.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.001 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by the ordinance
codified herein are authorized by Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution.
The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter are
deemed to be levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the
provisions and limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is deemed to
incorporate the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(R.C. § 718.04) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.002 PURPOSE OF TAX; RATE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide funds for the purposes of general
municipal operations, maintenance, new equipment, extension, and enlargement of
municipal services and facilities and capital improvements of the village,
including the payment of interest and principal on notes and bonds which may be
lawfully issued for such purposes, there shall be and is hereby levied a 1% tax
per annum on salaries, wages, commissions, and other compensation, and on net
profits as hereinafter provided.
(R.C. § 718.04) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.003 ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be
deposited in the General Fund Income Tax Account.
   (B)   Such funds shall be disbursed in the following order annually:
      (1)   Such part thereof as shall be necessary to defray all costs of
collecting the taxes and the costs of administering and enforcing the
provisions thereof;
      (2)   The balance of funds collected into the Income Tax Fund will
distribute the annual appropriated funds as follows: 60% to the General Fund;
40% to the Permanent Improvement Fund, with a special designation of $25,000 to
the Sewer Capital Improvement; and $25,000 to the Water Capital Improvement
Fund; and
      (3)   Moneys credited to such funds may, pursuant to authorization by
Council, be used for the purpose of paying interest and principal on the notes
and bonds which may lawfully be used for such purpose.
(Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.004 STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am Sub H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer, and collect a
municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 1543, effective
January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends Ordinance 630 in accordance with the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the municipality to continue the income
tax and withholding tax administration and collection efforts on behalf of the
municipality.
(Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.005 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   (A)   Ordinance 1543, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding changes
to R.C. Chapter 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after
January 1, 2016. All provisions of this chapter apply to taxable years
beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   Ordinance 1543 does not repeal the existing sections of Ordinance 630
for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends Ordinance 630 effective
January 1, 2016. For municipal taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016,
the municipality shall continue to administer, audit, and enforce the income
tax of the municipality under R.C. Chapter 718 and ordinances and resolutions
of the municipality as that ordinance and those ordinances and resolutions
existed before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.006 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this chapter
has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of the United
States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII, unless a
different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter that is
not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context in both
the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in R.C. Title
LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the laws of the
United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the use of the
term in R.C. Title LVII. For purposes of this section, the singular shall
include the plural, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the
gender-neutral.
   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a C
corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under the definition of “net profit” below, means a C corporation’s federal
taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined
under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
      (1)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal taxable
income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the intangible
income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held for the
production of income;
      (2)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (1) above, but excluding that portion of intangible income directly
related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property described in §
1221 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (3)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal
taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other
disposition of an asset described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue
Code;
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in division (4)(b) below, deduct income
and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the income and gain
directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of an asset
described in §§ 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code;
         (b)   Division (1) above does not apply to the extent the income or
gain is income or gain described in §§ 1245 or 1250 of the Internal Revenue
Code.
      (5)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
      (6)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
      (7)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
      (8)   (a)   Except as limited by divisions (8)(b), (8)(c), and (8)(d)
below, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable year
beginning on or after January 1, 2017. The amount of such net operating loss
shall be deducted from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the
extent necessary to reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining
unused portion of the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five
consecutive taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was
incurred, but in no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be
fully utilized.
         (b)   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (8)(a)
above to offset qualifying wages.
         (c)   1.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (8)(a)
above.
            2.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (8)(a) above.
         (d)   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
this division (8).
         (e)   Nothing in division (8)(c)1. above precludes a person from
carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a taxable year
beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was not fully
utilized by operation of division (8)(c)1. above. To the extent that an amount
of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in one or more taxable years
by operation of division (8)(c)1. above is carried forward for use with respect
to a return filed for a taxable year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022,
the limitation described in division (8)(c)1. above shall apply to the amount
carried forward.
      (9)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
32.052(E)(3)(b);
      (10)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
32.052(E)(3)(b);
      (11)   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made the election described in the definition of “taxpayer”
below, is not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election
described in the definition of “net profit” below, and is not an individual,
the taxpayer shall compute ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME under this section
as if the taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other
similar amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder,
former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed as a
deductible expense unless such payments are in consideration for the use of
capital and treated as payment of interest under § 469 of the Internal Revenue
Code or United States Treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a
qualified self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the
taxpayer, amounts paid for accrued to or for health insurance for a partner,
former partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and
amounts paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction; and
      (12)   Nothing in division (1) above shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
   ASSESSMENT. 
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation;
         (b)   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
32.090(B)(2);
         (c)   A Tax Administrator’s denial of a taxpayer’s request for use of
an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
32.051(B)(2); or
         (d)   A Tax Administrator’s requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
32.051(B)(3).
         (e)   For purposes of division (1)(a) to (1)(d) above, an ASSESSMENT
shall commence the person’s time limitation for making an appeal to the Local
Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
32.113, and shall have ASSESSMENT written in all capital letters at the top of
such finding.
      (2)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for refund
issued under §
32.090(B)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator’s request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by this division (2)(A).
   AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books, records,
memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
   BOARD OF REVIEW. Has the same meaning as LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of March,
June, September, or December.
   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
3772.01.
   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE, AND
SIMILAR TERMS. Include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
   COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for personal
services.
   DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a qualifying
subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company, subsidiary, or
entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
   DOMICILE. The true, fixed, and permanent home of the taxpayer to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
   EXEMPT INCOME. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) below, intangible
income;
         (b)   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible income
on March 29, 1988, pursuant to § 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th general assembly,
may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the electors of the
municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to permit the taxation
of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor thereof at an
election held on November 8, 1988.
      (3)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments, or from charitable,
religious, or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness,
accident, or liability insurance policies. As used in this division (3),
“unemployment compensation” does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (4)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities;
      (5)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
      (6)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges, and
similar organizations;
      (7)   Alimony and child support received;
      (8)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
      (9)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject to
the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. This division (9) does not
apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
      (10)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
      (11)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under § 107 of the Internal Revenue Code;
      (12)   Employee compensation that is not “qualifying wages” as defined
below;
      (13)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of a
United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
      (14)   An S corporation shareholder’s distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 1402(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code;
      (15)   (a)   Except as provided in divisions (15)(b), (15)(c), and (15)
(d) below, qualifying wages described in §
32.036(B)(1) or (E) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
         (b)   The exemption provided in division (15)(a) above does not apply
with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee resided at the
time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
         (c)   The exemption provided in division (15)(a) above does not apply
to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
32.036(D)(2).
         (d)   The exemption provided in division (15)(a) above does not apply
to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
            1.   For qualifying wages described in §
32.036(B)(1), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
32.036(E), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed location is
located; and
            2.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (15)(d)1. above on the basis of the employee not performing services
in that municipal corporation.
      (16)   (a)   Except as provided in division (16)(b) or (16)(c) below,
compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident individual for
personal services performed in the municipality on not more than 20 days in a
taxable year.
         (b)   The exemption provided in division (16)(a) above does not apply
under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the
municipality; or
            2.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of this division (16)
(b)2., PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE, PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER, and PUBLIC FIGURE have
the same meanings as in §
32.036.
         (c)   Compensation to which this division (16) applies shall be
treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of operation. If the
individual does not have a base of operation, the compensation shall be treated
as earned or received where the individual is domiciled; or
         (d)   For purposes of this division (16), BASE OF OPERATION means the
location where an individual owns or rents an office, storefront, or similar
facility to which the individual regularly reports and at which the individual
regularly performs personal services for compensation.
      (17)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed for
a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence;
      (18)   Income, the taxation of which is prohibited by the constitution or
laws of the United States; and
      (19)   Any item of income that is EXEMPT INCOME of a pass-through entity
under this definition is EXEMPT INCOME of each owner of the pass-through entity
to the extent of that owner’s distributive or proportionate share of that item
of the entity’s income.
   FORM 2106. Internal revenue service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by a
particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
   INCOME. Includes the following:
      (1)   (a)   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in the definition of “net profit”.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (1)(a) above:
            1.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the taxable
year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss generated
in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership interest
in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that taxable year
and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit of the
resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit attributable to
the resident’s ownership interest in a pass- through entity until fully
utilized, subject to division (1)(d) below; and
            2.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year.
         (c)   Division (1)(b) above does not apply with respect to any net
profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership interest in an S
corporation unless shareholders’ distributive shares of net profits from S
corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as provided in the
definition of “exempt income” above.
         (d)   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer’s
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
      (2)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident’s distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass- through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident;
      (3)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the taxpayer;
      (4)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings from
games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
32.070; and
      (5)   For residents, an S corporation shareholder’s distributive share of
net profits of the S corporation to the extent the distributive share would be
allocated or apportioned to this state under R.C. § 5733.05(B)(1) and (B)(2) if
the S corporation were a corporation subject to taxes imposed under R.C.
Chapter 5733, and the tax shall apply to the distributive share of a
shareholder of an S corporation in the hands of the shareholder of the S
corporation.
   INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as those terms are defined
in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies, and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other similar games of chance.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, 26
U.S.C. For example, where reference is made to “§ 1221 of the Internal Revenue
Code”, the complete citation would then be 26 U.S.C. § 1221.
   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under R.C.
Chapter 1705, Chapter 1706, or under the laws of another state.
   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity created under
§
32.113.
   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. In general terms, a status conferred upon a local
government unit by state law giving the unit certain autonomous operating
authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain, police power,
and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development district or
joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under R.C. §§ 715.70
or 715.71.
   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
      (1)   Includes the following:
         (a)   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by exempt
income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as applicable,
apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
32.051, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality;
         (b)   1.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality other
than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income to the
extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in division (2)
below, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the individual for the municipality.
            2.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified municipal
corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted, and
increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation from
the qualified municipal corporation’s tax on or before December 31, 2013. If a
qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts income
earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
         (c)   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
32.051, then reduced as provided in division (2) below, and further reduced by
any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to the individual for
the municipality.
      (2)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is an
individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (1)(b)1. or (1)
(c) above, the amount of the individual’s employee business expenses reported
on the individual’s form 2106 that the individual deducted for federal income
tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation imposed by § 67 of
the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal corporation in which the taxpayer
is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed for federal
income tax purposes. For a municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is not a
resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to the extent the expenses
are related to the taxpayer’s performance of personal services in that
nonresident municipal corporation.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Pemberville.
   NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a trade
or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses resulting
from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations.
   NET PROFIT.
      (1)   For a person other than an individual, means adjusted federal
taxable income.
      (2)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual, means the
individual’s net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of this division, the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated
and deducted in the same manner as provided in the definition of “adjusted
federal taxable income” above.
      (3)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division (1)
above, NET PROFIT of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable as against that
disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the net profit of the
owner of the disregarded entity.
      (4)   (a)   For purposes of this chapter, PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP may have any
number of partners.
         (b)   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any other
provision of this chapter, the NET PROFIT of a publicly traded partnership that
makes the election described in this division (4) shall be taxed as if the
partnership were a C corporation, and shall not be treated as the NET PROFIT or
income of any owner of the partnership.
         (c)   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its NET PROFITS
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its NET PROFITS. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (4)(d) below.
         (d)   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (4)(c) above. The election to discontinue filing as a
C corporation is binding for a five-year period beginning with the first
taxable year of the election and continues to be binding for each subsequent
five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing municipal
income tax returns as a partnership for municipal purposes. An election to
discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in the first year following
the last year of a five-year election period.
         (e)   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but this division (4) applies to all
municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the partnership resides.
         (f)   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
Corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence and report partnership distribution of NET PROFIT.
   NONRESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident of the municipality.
   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created under
R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply forms
with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and payment
system.
   OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association taxable as
a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability company
not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax
purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which the income
or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for federal income
tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust, estate, grantor of
a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
   PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is reported
to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION does not
include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified deferred
compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-2, Wage
and Tax Statement, or successor form.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies,
business’ trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
   POSTAL SERVICE. The United States postal service, or private delivery
service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon delivery
schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, AND THE LIKE. Include the date recorded and
marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a database kept in
the regular course if its business and marked on the cover in which the payment
or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or document was given to
the delivery service for delivery.
   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD. 
      (1)   Any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before
January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or
ordinance of the municipality that was adopted by the municipality before
January 1, 2016, to be carried forward and utilized to offset income or net
profit generated in such municipality in future taxable years.
      (2)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any PRE-
2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
   QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A municipal corporation that, by resolution
or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted Ohio adjusted
gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to tax for
the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue
Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows.
      (1)   Deduct the following amounts:
         (a)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in § 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code;
         (b)   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer; and
         (c)   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
      (2)   Add the following amounts:
         (a)   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee was
employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
         (b)   Any amount not included in wages because the amount arises from
the sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a
stock option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased
under a stock option. This division (2)(b) applies only to those amounts
constituting ordinary income;
         (c)   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in §§ 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code. This
division (2)(c) applies only to employee contributions and employee deferrals;
         (d)   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in § 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages;
         (e)   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with § 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code; and
         (f)   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following apply:
            1.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation that
is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under § 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute wages
as defined in § 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
            3.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
            4.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been added
to wages pursuant to either this division (2) or R.C. § 718.03, as that section
existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the 130th General Assembly,
March 23, 2015.
   RELATED ENTITY. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s family
enumerated in § 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the stockholder and the
members of the stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
      (2)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
      (3)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (4) below, provided the
taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, at least
50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding stock; or
      (4)   The attribution rules described in § 318 of the Internal Revenue
Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in
divisions (1) to (3) above have been met.
   RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during all or
any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component member
as defined in § 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or a person to or from
whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance with § 1563(e) of
the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of determining whether a person
is a RELATED MEMBER under this division, “20%” shall be substituted for “5%”
wherever “5%” appears in § 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
   RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as determined
under §
32.021.
   S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under Subchapter S of
Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code, being 26 U.S.C. §§ 1361
et seq., for its taxable year.
   SCHEDULE C. Internal revenue service schedule C (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE E. Internal revenue service schedule E (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE F. Internal revenue service schedule F (form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company that
has one direct member.
   SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than $500,000
during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division, TOTAL REVENUE
means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited to, sales
receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other investment
income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants; contributions;
donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service revenue; premiums;
fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition payments; unrelated
business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from a governmental unit,
including grants and other allocations; and any other similar receipts reported
for federal income tax purposes or under generally accepted accounting
principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal government; any state
government, including any state agency or instrumentality; any political
subdivision; or any entity treated as a government for financial accounting and
reporting purposes.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR. The individual charged with direct responsibility for
administration of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation in accordance
with this chapter, and also includes the following:
      (1)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
      (2)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis; and
      (3)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
   TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in § 7701(a)(36) of the
Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for the
taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
   TAXPAYER.
      (1)   A person subject to a tax levied on income by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not include a
grantor trust or, except as provided in division (2)(a) below, a disregarded
entity.
      (2)   (a)   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate TAXPAYER from its
single member in all state municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
            2.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more state municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
            3.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
TAXPAYER under R.C. § 718.01(L) as this section existed on December 31, 2004;
            4.   The limited liability company was not formed for the purpose
of evading or reducing state municipal corporation income tax liability of the
limited liability company or its single member; and
            5.   The state municipal corporation that was the primary place of
business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to the
election.
         (b)   For purposes of division (2)(a)5. above, a municipal corporation
was the primary place of business of a limited liability company if, for the
limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003, its income tax
liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any other municipal
corporation in the state, and that tax liability to that municipal corporation
for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
   TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to taxpayers in
R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38, 5717.011, and
5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and the
responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the state
pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(R.C. § 718.01) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS
§ 32.020 DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows. Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such
exempt income is otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee
business expense deduction as found §
32.006, further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward equals
municipal taxable income.
      (1)   Income is defined in §
32.006.
         (a)   Qualifying wages is defined in §
32.006.
         (b)   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
32.006. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in §
32.006. Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental
real estate is provided in §
32.051(E).
         (c)   Section
32.006 provides the following: offsetting and net operating loss carryforward
treatment in division (1)(b)1. of the definition of “income”; resident’s
distributive share of net profit from pass through entity treatment in division
(1)(b)2. of the definition of “income”; treatment of S Corporation distributive
share of net profit in the hands of the shareholder in division (1)(c) of the
definition of “income”; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried
forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in (1)(d) of the
definition of “income”.
         (d)   Pass through entity is defined in §
32.006.
      (2)   Exempt income is defined in §
32.006.
      (3)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in
division (2) of the definition of “municipal taxable income”, and is subject to
the limitations provided in that section.
      (4)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
32.006.
   (B)   Municipal taxable income for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows. Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such
exempt income is otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned, or
sitused to the municipality as provided in §
32.051, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in
division (2) of the definition of “municipal taxable income”, further reduced
by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable
income.
      (1)   Income is defined in §
32.006(14).
         (a)   Qualifying wages is defined in §
32.006.
         (b)   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
32.006. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in division (8)
of the definition of “adjusted federal taxable income”. Net profit for a
nonresident individual includes any net profit of the nonresident, but excludes
the distributive share of net profit or loss of only pass through entity owned
directly or indirectly by the nonresident.
         (c)   Pass through entity is defined in §
32.006.
      (2)   Exempt income is defined in §
32.006.
      (3)   Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
32.051 includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment of net profits
received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
32.051(E).
      (4)   Allowable employee business expense deduction, as described in
division (2) of the definition of “municipal taxable income”, is subject to the
limitations provided in that section. For a nonresident of the municipality,
the deduction is limited to the extent the expenses are related to the
performance of personal services by the nonresident in the municipality.
      (5)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
32.006.
(Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.021 DOMICILE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DOMICILE.
         (a)   The true, fixed, and permanent home of the taxpayer to which
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
         (b)   An individual is presumed to be DOMICILED in the municipality
for all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year, or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is DOMICILED in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
         (c)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (a) above if the individual establishes by a preponderance of the
evidence that the individual was not DOMICILED in the municipality for all or
part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual’s residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in § 152 of the Internal Revenue Code, to
the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located; and
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one “contact
period” with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual’s abode located outside of the municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section, the state’s
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(R.C. § 718.012) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.022 EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the state’s General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(R.C. § 718.50) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
COLLECTION AT SOURCE
§ 32.035 WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality’s income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
32.036 or divisions (D) or (F) below. An employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying wages on the date
that the employer, agent, or other payer directly, indirectly, or
constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages to
the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) above, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also deduct
and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to the
Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes deducted
and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the
employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the Tax
Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following schedule.
      (1)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required to
make payments under division (B)(2) below of taxes required to be deducted and
withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator not later than
the fifteenth day of the month following the end of each calendar quarter.
      (2)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payments under this division (B)(2)
shall be made to the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days after the fast
day of each month.
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee’s employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
32.085.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer’s, agent’s, or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a Withholding Reconciliation Return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee’s qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer’s control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee, when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter, to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for
the purposes of this section.
(R.C. § 718.03) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.036 OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYER. Includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      FIXED LOCATION. A permanent place of doing business in this state, such
as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or controlled by
an employer.
      PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK. 
         (a)   The fixed location to which an employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the worksite location in this
state to which the employee is required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not required to report for
employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location or
worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location in this state at
which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a calendar year
performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
         (b)   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the greatest number of days in a calendar year performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (B)(1)(a) below among those two or more
municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and
reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall
be the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those qualifying
wages for the purposes of this section. For the purposes of this division (b),
the location at which an employee spends a particular day shall be deemed in
accordance with division (B)(2) below, except that “location” shall be
substituted for “municipal corporation” wherever “municipal corporation”
appears in that division.
      PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE. An athlete who performs services in a professional
athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER. A person who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      PUBLIC FIGURE. A person of prominence who performs services at discrete
events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for wages or
other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      WORKSITE LOCATION. A construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20 days during
the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of an employee.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F), and (G) below, an employer
is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages paid to an
employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal corporation
that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in the
municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of the
following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
municipality;
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division, PRESUMED
WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary worksite in this
state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be expected
by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services can
REASONABLY BE EXPECTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO LAST MORE THAN 20 DAYS if either of
the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services; or
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages as provided
in §
32.035; or
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) above, an employee shall be
considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal corporation
only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on behalf of
the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other municipal
corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount of time an
employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing one or more
of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent at the
employee’s principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee’s employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) above, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee does not
temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned, used, or
controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; and
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) above shall apply only if, with respect to the employee’s qualifying wages
described in that division, the employer withholds and remits tax on such
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) below, if, during a
calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing personal
services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold described in
division (B)(1) above, the employer shall withhold and remit tax to that
municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that calendar year on which
the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for personal services
performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) above may elect to withhold tax for that
municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2)
above, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those first 20
days to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal place of
work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee’s qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer’s fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
32.006. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) above shall not apply to the extent that a
Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the manner
in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
32.035.
   (G)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a petroleum
refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the qualifying
wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12 or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the employer is
located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax
applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on those
days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax
on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this division,
a PETROLEUM REFINERY is a facility with a standard industrial classification
code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining. Notwithstanding
division (D) above, if, during a calendar year, the number of days an
individual performs personal services at a petroleum refinery exceeds 12, the
employer shall withhold tax for the municipal corporation for the first 12 days
for which the employer paid qualifying wages to the individual and for all
subsequent days in the calendar year on which the individual performed services
at the refinery.
(R.C. §§ 718.011 and 718.01) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.037 CASINO AND VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINALS.
   (A)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in § 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. § 3772.01,
respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery terminals sales
on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income tax with respect
to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this section.
   (B)   If a person’s winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the internal revenue service of the amount is required by § 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct and
withhold municipal income tax from the person’s winnings at the rate of the tax
imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address, and Social Security number of the person from
whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of
the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino
gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by
the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit
electronically to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall file an
annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipal
corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the total
amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The casino
operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount that was
deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the name,
address, or Social Security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall issue an
information return to each person with respect to whom an amount has been
deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The information
return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted from the
person’s winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall provide
to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under this
division. The Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable.
         (a)   The successor shall withhold an amount of the purchase money
that is sufficient to cover the amounts deducted and withheld along with any
penalties and interest thereon until the predecessor casino operator produces
either of the following:
            1.   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
            2.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
         (b)   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor
is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person’s prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the internal revenue service is required by § 6041 of
the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person’s prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person’s name, address, and Social Security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses, and Social Security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under this division (E) and shall make those records available to the
Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be maintained in accordance
with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before January 31, each video lottery terminal
sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address, or Social Security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before January 31, a video lottery sales agent
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
and withheld from the person’s prize award by the video lottery sales agent
during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall provide to the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each information return
issued under this division (E)(5). The Tax Administrator may require that such
copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due. If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld; or
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
32.055. This division applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(R.C. § 718.031) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX
§ 32.050 DETERMINING TAX FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for
the municipality is calculated as follows.
   (B)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
      (1)   Income for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net
profit of the taxpayer.
         (a)   Net profit for a person other than an individual is defined in §
32.006.
         (b)   Adjusted federal taxable income is defined in §
32.006.
      (2)   Exempt income is defined in §
32.006.
      (3)   Apportionment means the apportionment as determined by §
32.051.
      (4)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
32.006.
(R.C. § 718.01) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.051 NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated. As used
in the preceding sentence, TANGIBLE PERSONAL OR REAL PROPERTY shall include
property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such property shall
be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
32.036; and
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) above do
not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business activity in the
municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality; and/or
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
32.114(A).
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) above only by issuing an
assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
32.114(A).
      (4)   Nothing in this division (B) nullifies or otherwise affects any
alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax Administrator or
otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and taxpayer before January
1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) above, WAGES, SALARIES, AND OTHER
COMPENSATION includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid to an
employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) above, or a related member of such a vendor, customer,
client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer; or
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) above solely in order
to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax liability. If a Tax
Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may dispute the
determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the Tax
Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) above, receipts from sales and
rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal corporation
as follows.
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation only if, regardless of where title passes,
the property meets any of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation; or
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   (1)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the
rental of real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded
entity owned by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal
corporation in which the property generating the net profit is located and the
municipal corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net
profit resides.
      (2)   A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) below, commissions
received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale, purchase, or
lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation in which the
real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate agent or broker
shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the ratio of the
commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase, or lease of
real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions received
from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the taxable
year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual’s net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual’s annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
32.070.
   (G)   If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee’s
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under division (12) of the definition of “exempt income” and division
(1)(c) of the definition of “qualifying wages”, by a municipal corporation to
which the taxpayer has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer
shall add the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit
that was apportioned to that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer
be required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal
corporation any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation. This division applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to a
municipal corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) above for the
purposes of that division or division (B) above, the owner of a disregarded
entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the property, payroll, and gross
receipts of such disregarded entity.
(R.C. § 718.02) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.052 CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS. An affiliated group as defined in §
1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group includes at
least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily engaged in the
business of providing local exchange telephone service in this state, the
AFFILIATED GROUP shall not include any incumbent local exchange carrier that
would otherwise be included in the group.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN. A consolidated return filed for
federal income tax purposes pursuant to § 1501 of the Internal Revenue Code.
      CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. The consolidated taxable income of
an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of filing a
consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net operating
losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME does not
include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is excluded
from the affiliated group under the definition of “afflicted group of
corporations” above.
      INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law.
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) below.
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) above. The election to discontinue filing a
consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) above is binding
on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a municipal
income tax.
      (4)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under R.C. § 718.80, a
valid election made by the taxpayer under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this
section is binding upon the tax commissioner for the remainder of the five-year
period.
      (5)   When an election made under R.C. § 718.80 is terminated, a valid
election made under R.C. § 718.86 is binding upon the tax administrator for the
remainder of the five-year period.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3), and
(E)(4) below, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
32.006, by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income” for “federal
taxable income” wherever “federal taxable income” appears in that division and
by substituting “an affiliated group of corporation’s” for “a C corporation’s”
wherever “a C corporation’s” appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under the definition of “adjusted
federal taxable income” to the extent that the item of income or deduction
otherwise subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass- through entity’s net profit or loss
for that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
32.051, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group; or
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
32.051, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
32.051, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation; and
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
32.051 by substituting “consolidated federal taxable income attributable to”
for “net profit from” wherever “net profit from” appears in that section and by
substituting “affiliated group of corporations” for “taxpayer” wherever
“taxpayer” appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(R.C. § 718.06) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.053 TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN THE STATE.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(R.C. § 718.15) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.054 TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income revenue the municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing
such a credit, the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(R.C. § 718.151) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.055 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESTIMATED TAXES. The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to be
the taxpayer’s tax liability for a municipal corporation’s income tax for the
current taxable year.
      TAX LIABILITY. The total taxes due to a municipal corporation for the
taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled, and
after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or credit from
another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld;
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service;
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator; and
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
32.085(G) or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the first
taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
          (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
and
         (d)   For an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of the first
month of the following taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable
year. For a person other than an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of
the twelfth month of the taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable
year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in division (C)(1)(a)
through (C)(1)(d) above.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §
32.085.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to R.C. § 5747.08(G).
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer’s
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
32.091 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) below.
The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a PAYMENT OF ESTIMATED TAXES ON OR BEFORE ANY PAYMENT
DATE shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) above shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty imposed by
this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
32.085 for that year; or
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on January 1 of the calendar year that includes the
first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(R.C. § 718.08) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
CREDIT FOR TAX PAID
§ 32.070 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   No credit for income tax payable to another municipality shall be permitted
as an offset to municipal income tax due to the village.
(Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.071 REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN. A compensation plan described in
§ 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) below, QUALIFYING LOSS means
the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan over the total
amount of income the taxpayer has recognized for federal income tax purposes
for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as compensation with respect to the
taxpayer’s receipt of money and property attributable to distributions in
connection with the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the QUALIFYING LOSS is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (a) above computed
without regard to this division (b) and a fraction, the numerator of which is
the portion of such compensation on which the taxpayer has paid income tax to
one or more municipal corporations and the denominator of which is the total
amount of compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      QUALIFYING TAX RATE. The applicable tax rate for the taxable year for
which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with respect to
any portion of the total amount of compensation, the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) below, a refundable credit
shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal corporation for
each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable year. The
amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying loss and
the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(R.C. § 718.021) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.072 CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
R.C. §§ 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit
against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to §
32.070.
(R.C. § 718.16) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.073 CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
32.090.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
32.090, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality’s tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
32.090.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section 32.070 regarding
any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(R.C. § 718.121) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
ANNUAL RETURN
§ 32.085 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the municipality under §
32.035(C) when the nonresident individual taxpayer’s sole income subject to the
tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers shall file an annual municipal
income tax return with the municipality, regardless of income or liability.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s Social Security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, Wage and Tax Statements, including all information
reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service
form 1040 or, in the case of a return or request required by a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio IT 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return
or refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund
request or the adjustments made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer
who files the annual return required by this section electronically is not
required to provide paper copies of any of the foregoing to the Tax
Administrator unless the Tax Administrator requests such copies after the
return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or a
portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall publish a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The department
shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this division to
the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under this division
(F) apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form or on a
form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer’s taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
32.086 applies, to the extent that any provision in this division conflicts
with any provision in §
32.086, the provision in §
32.086 prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) above shall file with the municipality
an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (F)(4) above.
   (I)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under §
32.035(B)(2).
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
The DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed, due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, SUBMITTED THE PAYMENT means the date which the taxpayer has designated
for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date as the date
the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in §
32.035 shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as credits against
payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts withheld were
not remitted to the municipality and the recipient colluded with the employer,
agent, or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts
withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box, the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality’s ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, WORKSITE LOCATION has the same meaning
as in §
32.036.
      (2)   A person may notify a Tax Administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter; and
         (b)   1.   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation’s
income tax for the taxable year.
            2.   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: “The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation’s resolutions, ordinances, or rules.” The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2)
above, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any tax
return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses information
that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described in the
affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results in work
being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that results
in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the taxable year.
It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the provisions of
this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal taxable income
on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit has been filed
with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in this division (N)
prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an audit of the person.
(Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.086 RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member’s or civilian’s
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(3) below, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the
Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the one hundred eighty-first day after
the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
(R.C. § 718.052)
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) above are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require any
payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) above.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under this division (C)
(2)(a) shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension that the
taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this section,
QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard or a member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of the
United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) above are not delinquent during the extension period. Such
taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of the extension
period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax Administrator
shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in connection with those
taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator shall not include any
period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) above in calculating the
penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which divisions (A), (B), or (C) above
applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) or (C)
above, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the filing status
of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that year.
(R.C. § 718.052) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.087 USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The state shall not be a party to
the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a municipal
income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(R.C. § 718.051) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.088 EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
(R.C. § 718.05) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.089 AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) below, the amended return shall not reopen those facts,
figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless the applicable statute of
limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
32.114 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by §
32.114(A)(2) for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the
period prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements
of that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no refund need be
paid by the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (C)
(2) below, a request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
32.090. Except as set forth in division (C)(2) below, the request shall not
reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments that are not
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
(R.C. § 718.12, 718.41) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.090 REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10; and
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer’s claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses, or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) below, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any taxpayer whose
request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment shall state the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and
instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
32.113.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) above shall be considered to have been filed in a
timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day; or
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
32.091.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in §
32.091.
(R.C. § 718.19) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.091 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICABLE LAW. This chapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the municipality, provided such
resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose or
directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE. The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under § 1274 of the Internal
Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX, AND WITHHOLDING TAX. Any income tax,
estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a municipal corporation
pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION. The federal
short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus 5%. The rate
shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the year in which
the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with the definitions
herein.
      RETURN. Includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule, and
other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX. Estimated income tax due but not paid by the
date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID INCOME TAX. Income tax due but not paid by the date the income tax
is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX. Withholding tax due but not paid by the date the
withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      WITHHOLDING TAX. Includes amounts an employer, any agent of an employer,
or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an employee’s
qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer, agent, or other
payer is required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as “interest rate” as
described in division (A) of this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax,
unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty not exceeding
50% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled,
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of $150 in assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges, or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the municipality’s post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney’s fees.
(R.C. § 718.27) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.092 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
32.006, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by any person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(R.C. § 718.36) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.093 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest
whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the
person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(R.C. § 718.25) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR
§ 32.105 AUTHORITY AND POWERS.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator’s findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer’s assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
32.051;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments, and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, re-determine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment, or order which the Tax Administrator
has made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review
or other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn
by the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
32.035.
(R.C. § 718.24) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.106 COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges, or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment- over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer’s failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(R.C. § 718.28) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.107 RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof,
may examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax
returns of any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that
the Tax Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter
for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return
was filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by
the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s possession
or control. The person may be assisted or presented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or examination. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(R.C. § 718.23) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.108 REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person’s Social Security number, federal employer identification
number, or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
32.091, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
32.999.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) above within 30 days
after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying information,
nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty
pursuant to §
32.091.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above
may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee with respect to
which the identifying information is sought and are in addition to any
applicable criminal penalties described in §
32.999 for a violation of §
32.110 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(R.C. § 718.26) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.109 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person’s official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner, and Tax Administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(R.C. § 718.13) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.110 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel, or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of if he or she records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document is based with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(R.C. § 718.35) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.111 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an “opinion of the Tax Administrator” and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G), and (H) below,
provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts;
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter; and
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an “opinion of the Tax Administrator”.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, un-codified state law, or the municipality’s
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, un-codified
state law, or the municipality’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances; or
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
32.110.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) above; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) above may not be appealed.
(R.C. § 718.38) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.112 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned, or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) above, and if that assessment is subject to collection and
is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60 days after the
initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal official, or the
designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division prevents the Tax
Administrator or other official from entering into a compromise with the person
if the person does not actually file such an appeal with the Local Board of Tax
Review.
(R.C. § 718.18) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.113 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO BOARD.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members. The
three members of the Local Board of Tax Review may be domiciled in the
municipality, but the appointing authority may consider membership from
individuals who are not domiciled within the municipality. Two members shall be
appointed by the legislative authority of the municipality, and may not be
employees, elected officials, or contractors with the municipality at any time
during their term or in the five years immediately preceding the date of
appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top administrative official
of the municipality. This member may be an employee of the municipality, but
may not be the Director of Finance or equivalent officer, or the Tax
Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly involved in
municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The Board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the Board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member’s predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the Board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the Board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the Board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the Board in the member’s
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the Board.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board by filing a request with the Board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful, and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C)
above, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives a
hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The Board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator’s
assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the Board’s final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board’s
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations, or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public, and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(R.C. § 718.11) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.114 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) above may be
extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent of
the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension. Any
extension shall also extend for the same period of time, the time limit
described in division (C) below.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
32.113. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review
with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment; and
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
32.090.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
32.113, of the Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of the
state’s Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from the
party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant’s assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
32.090, with interest on that amount as provided by this division (D).
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; or
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(R.C. § 718.12) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.115 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the legislative authority of the
municipality has the authority, by ordinance or resolution, to adopt rules to
administer the income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(R.C. § 718.30) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.116 LANDLORD REPORTING OF TENANT INFORMATION.
   (A)   All property owners and/or landlords of real property of any kind
within the village who rent to tenants of rental or leased residential,
commercial, industrial, or other rental property accommodations, shall file a
report with the Tax Commissioner, Administrator, or Village Fiscal Officer,
showing the names, addresses, telephone numbers, and places of employment, if
available, of each new tenant who occupies residential, commercial, industrial,
or other rental premises within the corporation limits of the village within 30
days after a new tenant occupies said rental property.
   (B)   Within 30 days after a tenant(s) vacates such rental property located
within the village, the property owner of such vacated rental property shall
identify and file a report with the Tax Commissioner, Administrator, or Village
Fiscal Officer showing such vacating tenants, the dates of vacation, and if
known, the forwarding addresses. Additionally, said landlords shall file an
annual report of tenant activity for the previous year no later than January
31. This report should summarize all previous report submissions and notify the
village of any/all empty units.
   (C)   Refusal by any property owner of rental property of any kind located
within the village to submit such information as set forth in divisions (A) and
(B) above, constitutes a minor misdemeanor punishable by fine or imprisonment,
or both, as prescribes by §
32.091.
(Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.117 COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effected until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
32.114.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
32.085 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
§ 32.118 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The village income tax ordinances are hereby amended so as to add the
provisions of R.C. §§ 718.80 and 718.95, effective for the 2018 income tax
year.
(Ord. 1574, passed 3-6-2018)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, whoever violates §§
32.110,
32.109(A), or
32.035 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from
office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of Internal Revenue Code §§ 7213(a), 7213A, or
7431 shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for
a term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the violation is
punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
32.109(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree
on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree; on each
subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. By way of an illustrative
enumeration, violations of this chapter shall include, but not be limited to,
the following acts, conduct, and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect, or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipal corporation as required by §
32.035;
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person’s income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers’
income or net profits, such person’s employer’s income or net profits;
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct Social Security number, and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this chapter; or
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties, or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify a
culpable mental state or intent shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
   (F)   For purposes of this section, the term PERSON shall, in addition to
the meaning prescribed in §
32.006, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity,
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity, or unincorporated business entity who has control or
supervision over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal
income tax returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as
required by this chapter.
(R.C. § 718.99) (Ord. 1543, passed 12-15-2015)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.001   Welcome
   
33.002   Purpose
   
33.003   Positions covered
   
33.004   Overall employment policy
   
33.005   Amendments
   
33.006   Department policies
   
33.007   Memos, policies, and regulations
   
33.008   Definitions
Standards of Conduct
   
33.020   Policy
   
33.021   Conflict of interest
   
33.022   Political activity
   
33.023   Outside employment
   
33.024   Release of information
   
33.025   Solicitation and distribution
   
33.026   Employees’ personal life and debts
   
33.027   Use of village property
   
33.028   Uniforms, dress, and appearance
   
33.029   General prohibitions
Types and Terms of Employment
   
33.040   Basis of employment
   
33.041   Participation in benefits
   
33.042   Employment terms
   
33.043   Probationary employees
Hiring Procedures
   
33.055   Vacancies
   
33.056   Basis for selection
   
33.057   Testing
   
33.058   Drug testing
   
33.059   Disability and medical examinations
Types of Separations
   
33.070   Types of separation
   
33.071   Resignation
   
33.072   Retirement
   
33.073   Death
   
33.074   Reduction in force (layoff)
   
33.075   Disability
   
33.076   Dismissal or discharge
   
33.077   Return of property and financial obligations
Transfer and Work Out of Classification
   
33.090   Temporary transfers/work out of classification
   
33.091   Permanent transfers
Promotions/Demotions
   
33.105   Notice of job vacancy (or posting)
   
33.106   Application
   
33.107   Interview
   
33.108   No sufficiently qualified applicants
   
33.109   Basis of selection
   
33.110   Wage rate
   
33.111   Demotion
Seniority Layoff and Recall
   
33.125   Layoff selection
   
33.126   Permanent layoffs
   
33.127   Recall
   
33.128   Decisions final
Attendance/Tardiness
   
33.140   Present and on time
   
33.141   Call-in
   
33.142   Verification
   
33.143   Continuing absence
Procedures
   
33.155   Employee discipline procedure
   
33.156   Grievance procedures
Hours of Work and Overtime
   
33.170   Hours of work
   
33.171   Regular work week or period
   
33.172   Overtime
   
33.173   Assignment and working overtime
Holidays and Vacation
   
33.185   List of legal holidays
   
33.186   Requirements to receive holiday compensation
   
33.187   Eligibility and accrual
   
33.188   Conditions of use
   
33.189   Use of vacation
   
33.190   Payoff of unused vacation hours
   
33.191   Compensatory time
Sick Leave
   
33.205   Sick leave accrual and conditions
   
33.206   Charging
   
33.207   Use
   
33.208   Extended unpaid medical leave
   
33.209   Sick leave donation
   
33.210   Sick leave payout
   
33.211   Sick leave award
   
33.212   Light duty
Bereavement Leave
   
33.225   Leave
   
33.226   Immediate family
   
33.227   Exceptions
Military Leave Policy
   
33.240   Performing military service
   
33.241   Procedure for requesting military leave
   
33.242   Military leave with pay
   
33.243   Military leave without pay
   
33.244   Military leave due to presidential, congressional, or gubernational
order
   
33.245   Benefits
   
33.246   Reinstatement from military leave without pay
Family Medical Leave
   
33.260   Policy
   
33.261   Instructions
   
33.262   Reason for taking leave
   
33.263   Definitions
   
33.264   Substitution of accrued leave time
   
33.265   Advance notice
   
33.266   Recurring notice
   
33.267   Work related injuries and illnesses
   
33.268   Intermittent or reduced leave
   
33.269   Joint use of FMLA leave by husband and wife
   
33.270   Benefits protection
Court/Witness Leave
   
33.285   Witness leave for the village
   
33.286   Other court related leave
   
33.287   Jury leave
   
33.288   Return to work
General Leave Without Pay
   
33.300   Leave of absence without pay
   
33.301   Effect of leaves on insurance coverage
Sexual and Other Illegal or Improper Misconduct
and Harassment Policy
   
33.315   Purpose
   
33.316   Statement of policy
   
33.317   Examples of prohibited sexually related conduct
   
33.318   Examples of other illegal bullying or improper harassment
   
33.319   Bullying policy
   
33.320   Making complaints of sexual harassment or misconduct or other illegal
or improper harassment or retaliation
   
33.321   Bad faith claims of sexual harassment or misconduct or other illegal
or improper harassment
   
33.322   Internal investigation procedure
Performance Evaluations
   
33.335   Performance evaluation system
   
33.336   Use
   
33.337   Review
   
33.338   Maintenance of records
Drug-Fee Workplace and Alcohol Policy
   
33.350   Policy
   
33.351   Prohibitions
   
33.352   Use of legal drugs
   
33.353   Substances tested for
   
33.354   Reporting and conviction of alleged crimes including drugs or alcohol
   
33.355   Discipline for violation of policy
   
33.356   Employee injured on the job
   
33.357   Reporting violation of the policy
   
33.358   Coordination with administrative services
Miscellaneous
   
33.370   Smoking
   
33.371   Employment compensation
   
33.372   Workers’ compensation
   
33.373   Desks, lockers, other city property/equipment, personal property
   
33.374   Records and reports
   
33.375   Employee training and development
   
33.376   Deductions
   
33.377   Take-home vehicles
   
33.378   Safety
   
33.379   Travel reimbursement policy
   
33.380   Mode of transportation
   
33.381   Meals
   
33.382   Lodging
   
33.383   Miscellaneous expenses
   
33.384   Typical expenses not reimbursable
   
33.385   Communication equipment usage policy
   
33.386   User responsibilities
   
33.387   Village auditing procedures
   
33.388   Village credit card policy
   
33.389   Village cell phone policy
   
33.390   Work order
   
33.391   Organization chart
   
33.392   Direct deposit of payroll
   
33.393   Time clock policy
   
33.394   Phone calls while off the clock/on vacation
Policy on Weapons in the Workplace
   
33.400   Objective
   
33.401   Scope
   
33.402   Policy
   
33.403   Prohibitions
   
33.404   Consequences for violation of this policy
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.001 WELCOME.
   (A)   The village welcomes you as a member of its municipal staff. As a
village employee, you are an important part of a group of select individuals
dedicated to providing the most efficient, professional, and courteous service
possible for our village’s customers - its citizens, property owners, and
visitors. We hope your association with us will be a happy and successful one.
While our resources are directed toward serving our community, we are vitally
concerned about your well-being as an employee. An organization is defined by
its values - the principles or standards that the organization considers to be
important. Recognizing that the public is our ultimate customer, the employees
of the village exist to serve our citizenry. The employees of the village are
the village’s most valuable resource in terms of service to the public, and
therefore, the village places high priority on the well-being of its employees.
It is through your efforts, combined with those of other employees, that the
most efficient, effective, and professional services can be provided. Every
effort will be made to assist you in adjusting to your job and in finding
satisfaction in your work.
   (B)   These personnel rules and regulations have been developed to establish
a consistent and equitable basis for administering matters affecting the
working environment in which the village’s staff functions. The policies
contained in this manual are administered by the Village Personnel Committee.
Any questions you may have regarding this manual can be answered by the
Personnel Committee or the Clerk’s office. These policies are not to be
construed as a contract of employment for any definite period of time between
you and the village or to provide to you any of the benefits contained herein.
In all cases the adopted rules and regulations shall apply. The personnel rules
and regulations contained herein supersede and replace any previous versions
and any prior employee handbook, memoranda, or materials provided regarding the
subjects herein. Inasmuch as the rules and regulations contained herein are
guides only, the village reserves the right to amend, terminate, or modify any
of the policies, practices, and procedures contained herein. Employees will be
advised of changes, deletions, or additions.
   (C)   We hope these personnel rules and regulations answer most of your
questions regarding the village’s personnel/human resource practices. Should
you have questions regarding any of the village’s rules and regulations
contained herein, or if you have suggestions for improvement to these personnel
rules and regulations, please feel free to forward your comments to the Clerk’s
office or Personnel Committee.
   (D)   The Village Council, the Board of Public Affairs, and other staff
personnel are pleased to have you as a member of the village’s team and join
with me in the hope that you will enjoy both your work and the new friends you
may make while associated with our village.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019)
§ 33.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these personnel rules and regulations (hereafter referred to
as “PRR” or “rules”) is to establish procedures, which will serve as a guide to
administrative actions covering most personnel actions, which may arise. The
final interpretation and application of these rules shall be made by the
Village of Pemberville (hereafter “village”) or its designee. The Council
reserves the right to amend, alter, modify, delete, and add to the rules.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019)
§ 33.003 POSITIONS COVERED.
   (A)   Unless a specific section or division provides otherwise, the
provisions of these rules shall be applicable to all employees in village
service except:
      (1)   Elected officials;
      (2)   Persons hired as independent contractors on a contractual fee or
retainer basis (e.g., Village Solicitor);
      (3)   Temporary, probationary, or seasonal employees; and
      (4)   Persons employed under the provisions of government programs or
grants unless they are classified as regular full-time employees by the
village.
   (B)   Employees employed as Department Superintendents are classified as “at
will” employees. Department Superintendents shall include, but not be limited
to, Electric Superintendent, Water Superintendent, Sewer Plant Superintendent,
Street Superintendent, and Police Chief.
      (1)   Employees shall be supervised and evaluated by the Village
Personnel Committee, Council, Board of Public Affairs, or its designee, and
shall serve in their capacity - and as village employees at the will and
pleasure of the Mayor, Village Council, and the Board of Public Affairs. With
exception to the Police Chief, he or she shall be supervised and evaluated by
the Mayor and Village Council.
      (2)   Employees shall not have access to §
33.156, but shall present their grievances directly to the Mayor and Village
Council who shall resolve same as they deem in the best interest of village
operations.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (B) above, employees in other positions
also serve in their position at the will and pleasure of the Mayor and/or
Village Council. Other positions include Police Sergeant, Police Officers
(full-/part-time), Zoning Inspector, street and utility helpers, Electrical
Lineperson, Clerk of the Board of Public Affairs, Clerk of the Zoning Board of
Appeals, Deputy Fiscal Officer, and a Fiscal Officer. All employees in these
positions may be terminated from village employment as provided in §
33.155 of these PRR.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019)
§ 33.004 OVERALL EMPLOYMENT POLICY.
   The overall employment policy of the village shall include the following.
   (A)   There shall be no illegal discrimination in employment, employment
opportunities, or job actions on the basis of race, color, religion, age, sex,
national origin, legally-recognized disability, or marital status unless one or
more of the above constitute a bona fide occupational qualification within the
meaning of the law. No job applicant or present employee will be illegally
discriminated against or given preference because of any of the above
characteristics, unless otherwise required by law.
   (B)   Persons with known legally recognized disabilities will be given full
consideration for employment and opportunities for advancement in all
departments and divisions. The village will offer to such persons reasonable
accommodation with respect to the essential functions of the job, provided the
person is otherwise qualified to perform the job, and provided further such
accommodation does not create undue hardship on village operations.
   (C)   The village will take affirmative recruitment actions to expand
employment opportunities for groups that are underutilized in the village
workforce, but not in any way which violates applicable law.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019)
§ 33.005 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the PRR shall be established by the Village Council. Copies
will be distributed to all departments and employees for review.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019)
§ 33.006 DEPARTMENT POLICIES.
   (A)   Department policies and standard operating procedures will be in
writing and submitted to and reviewed by the Village Personnel Committee and
recommended to Village Council for approval.
   (B)   Departmental policies and standard operating procedures approved by
the Village Personnel Committee will serve as supplements to these policies. In
the event of conflict, the PRR shall prevail unless the departmental rule has
been specifically approved as an exception by the Village Personnel Committee.
   (C)   Approved changes in departmental policies and standard operating
procedures shall be distributed to the affected employees after approval.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019)
§ 33.007 MEMOS, POLICIES, AND REGULATIONS.
   All prior memos, policies, procedures, and regulations inconsistent with
this PRR are null and void.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019)
§ 33.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE PAY STATUS. When an employee is working, on authorized paid leave,
paid holidays, or other time where pay is being credited to employee.
   ADA. Americans with Disabilities Act.
   ANNIVERSARY DATE. The original date an employee begins employment and the
same date in following years. This is the date upon which entitlement to fringe
benefits are based unless a specific benefit provides otherwise. The
ANNIVERSARY DATE may be changed in accordance with these rules.
   BULLYING. Refers to repeated, unreasonable actions of individuals directed
towards an employee or group of employees, which are intended to intimidate,
degrade, humiliate, or undermine. It is deliberate, hurtful, and driven by a
design to control.
   CALENDAR YEAR. For the purposes of recording leave, such as emergency,
personal, military, and all other leaves that have a calendar year limitation
(excluding FMLA), the dates used for reporting W-2 wages for employees shall be
considered the CALENDAR YEAR.
   CLASSIFICATION PLANS. Council approved systems of assigning rates of pay to
each position or job classification.
   CLASSIFICATION SENIORITY (also referred to as JOB or POSITION SENIORITY).
The length of time an employee has been continuously employed in his or her
current position classification. CLASSIFICATION SENIORITY will be lost or
changed upon the loss of seniority as described under §
33.126, and/or the transfer, promotion, demotion, or reassignment to or from
one job classification to another.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council (Legislative Authority) of the Village of
Pemberville.
   COMPENSATORY TIME (also referred to as COMP TIME). Time off from work in
lieu of pay.
   CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE. An employee who assists a managerial employee in a
confidential manner relating to labor relations and is exempt from coverage of
the Public Employee Relations Act.
   DEMOTION. Permanent reassignment of an employee to a lower level job
classification for disciplinary reasons, disciplinary demotions are covered
under §
33.155.
   DEPARTMENTAL SENIORITY. The length of time an employee has been continuously
employed in a department.
   DEPARTMENT SUPERINTENDENT. A superintendent who is assigned the overall
responsibility for the operation of a recognized department or area of village
operation.
   DISMISSAL or TERMINATION. Involuntary separation from village employment.
   DOL. Department of Labor.
   DOT. Department of Transportation.
   DRIVING POSITION. A position where the employee drives or may be required to
drive a village vehicle in the performance of his or her duties.
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   Regular full-time employee is any employee who is non-probationary
and assigned a regular schedule of a minimum of 40 hours a week.
      (2)   Part-time employee is any employee who is assigned a schedule of
less than 40 hours per week.
      (3)   Permanent part-time employee is any employee who is assigned a
permanent part-time regular schedule of less than 40 hours per week.
      (4)   A probationary employee is any employee who has not completed the
initial probationary period.
      (5)   Temporary employee is any employee that is not classified as a
regular full-time, part-time, or probationary employee, such as a seasonal or a
part-time employee who does not work a regular schedule.
      (6)   Seasonal employee is a temporary employee who is employed for a
specific period of the year only.
   EXEMPT EMPLOYEE. An employee exempt from the minimum wage and/or overtime
under the Fair Labor Standards Act and paid a salary for all hours worked in a
work week.
   FLSA. The Fair Labor Standards Act.
   FMLA. Family Medical Leave Act.
   FLEXIBLE SCHEDULING. A method of scheduling typically used for adjusting an
hourly employees work hours (start and stop times) within an eight hour workday
or 40 hour work week.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. Includes spouse, children, parent, brother, sister, in-
law, any relative living in the same household, stepparent, stepchild, step
brother or sister, grandmother, grandfather, and grandchild, legal guardian,
provided such definition shall not apply to FMLA leave under §§
33.260 through
33.270.
   JOB DESCRIPTION. A written description of some but not all of the duties and
responsibilities of a job.
   MANAGERIAL/CONFIDENTIAL EMPLOYEE. An employee who performs jobs that are not
routine and clerical in nature, and which require the exercise of independent
judgment and is exempt from coverage of the Public Employee Relations Act.
   MAY. The word MAY shall be interpreted as permissive.
   MERIT PAY INCREASE. An increase in compensation established in the
classification plan which may be granted to an employee based on merit.
   PAY GRADE. The salary range, which is assigned to particular classification
title, expressed as a pay range number.
   PERFORMANCE EVALUATION (also referred to as “PE”). A written report of an
employee’s job performance.
   PROBATIONARY PERIOD. The first 90 days of continuous employment with the
village as an employee; provided where a formal training period, certification,
or license is required for a job, the probationary period shall continue until
certification or license is obtained. After successful completion of the
probationary period, the employee will be classified as a regular employee.
   PROMOTION. Regular assignment of an employee to a higher-level job
classification.
   RE-CLASSIFICATION. Movement of a job or job classification from one pay
grade to another based on significant changes in the job duties,
responsibilities, job market, and/or other work related factors.
   RE-EMPLOYMENT. The hiring of a person who formally worked for the village.
Persons rehired shall be new employees for all purposes, unless the
Superintendent recommends and the Village Personnel Committee, Council, or
Board of Public Affairs approves otherwise in a particular case.
   REINSTATEMENT. An action returning a person to village employment.
   RESIGNATION. Act of voluntarily withdrawing from village employment.
   SECTION 7(K). Section 7(K) of the Fair Labor Standards Act allowing certain
employees in the Fire and Police Departments to be paid overtime based on a
schedule other than after 40 hours in a seven-day period.
   SHALL. The word SHALL will be interpreted as mandatory.
   STATUS DATE. The day an employee was hired, permanently transferred,
promoted, or demoted to his or her current position. Also changing from part-
time to full-time, from temporary to regular employment, or vice versa.
   SUPERINTENDENTS. Village employees who are responsible for specific areas of
work and any supervision of specified projects within their expertise.
   TRANSFER. The reassignment of an employee from one position to another.
   VILLAGE. The Village Council or an employee authorized to act on behalf of
the village with respect to a particular matter.
   VILLAGE “AT-WILL” EMPLOYEE. Employees who serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor, and Village Council who may be removed from their position and/or
disciplined up to and including termination by Village Council for any or no
reasons subject only to applicable law.
   VILLAGE SENIORITY. The total time an employee has continuously worked for
the village without loss of seniority under §§
33.125 through
33.128.
   WORK DAY. The scheduled number of hours an employee is required to work per
day.
   WORK WEEK OF WORK PERIOD. The number of hours regularly scheduled to be
worked during any seven consecutive days or other work period allowed by the
Fair Labor Standards Act and is authorized by the village.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019)
STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
§ 33.020 POLICY.
   (A)   One of the primary objectives of the village is to establish and
administer a system of personnel administration consistent with the goal of
providing superior service to the community by employing and retaining
individuals of the highest caliber who display pride and dignity in the
performance of their duties in a public service career.
   (B)   To an unusual extent and in a special way, employees in the village
organization are “Good Will Ambassadors”. Such status involves a degree of duty
and obligation regarding public and private conduct which is not common to
other classes of employment. The attitude and deportment of a village employee
should at all times be such as to promote the good will and favorable attitude
of the public toward the village, its programs, and policies.
   (C)   All employees are encouraged to develop skills and seek formal
training that will enhance their personal development and add to the overall
expertise of the organization.
   (D)   It is the policy of the village to expect from employees compliance
with the PRR, state codes, federal regulations, and departmental rules in the
performance of duties, as well as compliance with all safety rules and
standards. An employee who violates any of the standards of conduct or
departmental rules of the PRR shall be subject to disciplinary action.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.021 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Employees in a position to influence actions and decisions of the
village or a member of the managerial staff shall refrain from internal or
external relationships which may adversely affect the exercise of their
independent judgment in dealing with suppliers of goods or services and other
persons not employed by the village.
   (B)   No village employee shall accept any gift, loan, favor, or service
that might reasonable appear to improperly influence them in the discharge of
their official duties.
   (C)   An employee shall not use his or her position with the village to
obtain or attempt to obtain any special preferences, favors, privileges, or
exemptions for himself or herself or for any other person.
   (D)   No employee shall disclose confidential information gained by reason
of his or her official position with the village except in and as a part of his
or her normal duties as a village employee; nor shall such employee use such
confidential information not available to the public for personal gain or
benefit.
   (E)   When an employee has or anticipates creating a business relationship
with another person, partnership, firm, corporation, or other business entity
which does or seeks to do business with the village, or any division thereof,
the employee shall advise the Village Personnel Committee in writing as soon as
that potential relationship is known. The Village Personnel Committee will
determine whether there is a conflict of interest or a potential conflict of
interest and direct the employee’s activities in such a way that they conflict
or potential conflict of interest no longer exists. The Village Personnel
Committee’s determination as to whether there is a conflict of interest or a
potential conflict of interest and the actions required by the Village
Personnel Committee shall be final.
   (F)   No village employee shall transact any business in his or her official
capacity with any business entity of which he or she is an officer,
Superintendent, agent, or member, or in which he or she owns a controlling
interest.
   (G)   No employee shall have or hold any employment or contractual
relationship with any business entity or any agency that is subject to the
regulation of or is doing business with the village, excluding those
organizations and its officers who, when acting in its official capacity, enter
into a negotiate a collective bargaining contract with the village; nor shall
an officer or employee of the village have or hold any employment or
contractual relationship that will create a continuing or frequently recurring
conflict between his or her private interests and the performance of his or her
public duties or that would impede the full and faithful discharge of his or
her public duties. This shall not prohibit an employee from practicing in a
particular profession or occupation when such practice is required or permitted
by law or ordinance.
   (H)   All employees shall comply with the code of ethics for public officers
and employees under the state laws, as well as all village ordinances and
policies, including this PRR.
   (I)   An employee shall not use his or her employment with the village to
attempt to persuade any person, including, but not limited to, citizens,
residents, or guests, to make contributions to any cause, unless that cause has
been specifically approved by the Village Personnel Committee.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.022 POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Employees may engage in political activities during their non-duty
time so long as their activities do not interfere with the operation of village
business.
   (B)   Employees shall not wear or display political badges, buttons, or
stickers when on duty, when wearing a village insignia, riding in or on village
equipment or when in a village uniform.
   (C)   Employees shall comply with all state and local laws involving
political activity.
   (D)   Employees may run for elective office or be appointed to non-elective
office other than those involving the village so long as the position in no way
interferes with their work as a village employee.
   (E)   No village employee shall solicit any contribution for the campaign
fund or any candidate for village office or take part in the political campaign
of any candidate for village office while on duty.
   (F)   No village employee shall solicit, orally or by letter, or be in any
other manner involved in obtaining any assessments, contributions, or services
for any political candidate or party from any employee while on duty.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.023 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Subject to divisions (B) through (G) below, full-time employees are
discouraged but not prohibited from engaging in other employment, including
individually owned business, during their off-duty hours. However, village
employment shall be considered the primary employment and no employee may
engage in outside employment which interferes or tends to interfere with the
interest of the village or the duties for which the employee is responsible as
a village employee.
   (B)   An employee shall not engage in outside employment with, nor render a
service for, any person or business entity having business transactions with
the village.
   (C)   At no time shall the outside employment adversely impact the
employee’s job functions for the village. The determination of what is an
adverse impact on the employee’s job functions shall be within the sole and
absolute discretion of the Village Personnel Committee.
   (D)   Employee may not work at outside employment while on leave of absence
from the village, except with the authorization of the Village Council.
   (E)   If in the judgment of the Village Personnel Committee, the employee’s
other employment causes or may cause absences, tardiness, or otherwise
interferes or may interfere with the operations of the village or his or her
responsibility as an employee of the village, including, but not limited to,
availability for scheduled and unscheduled overtime and/or call-ins, the
employee may be required to quit the other job or leave village employment.
   (F)   Equipment, facilities, vehicles, or property of the village shall not
be used by employees for other jobs.
   (G)   Employees who are injured while working another job or jobs are
required to notify the village Personnel Committee or his or her designee
immediately.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.024 RELEASE OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Employees shall at all times be courteous, friendly, and helpful to
those members of the public who we seek information.
   (B)   Unless release of information of village records, including those
concerning personnel records or the operations of village business is a normal
part of their duties, or unless under subpoena, employees will not release and,
if asked, will courteously decline to release village records or to reveal
information pertaining to personnel and other village business and shall direct
such inquiries to the Village Personnel Committee.
   (C)   Managerial, confidential, and supervisory employees are cautioned that
subjects under discussion or consideration among village staff often change in
content and meaning before becoming an accomplished fact. Such discussions
should be avoided.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.025 SOLICITATION AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Employee contributions to recognized charitable organizations are
purely voluntary. No coercion of an employee to make contributions shall be
permitted.
   (B)   Employees of the village are prohibited from conducting or promoting
private business for gain while on duty or during scheduled working hours of
any of the employees involved or within any village building.
   (C)   Employees are prohibited from soliciting for any reason during time
they or the person they seek to solicit are being paid to perform actual work,
including solicitations on behalf of or in opposition to a labor organization
under circumstances which management determines interfere with the efficient
operation of the village.
   (D)   Employees are prohibited from distributing literature of any kind
during hours they are being paid to perform actual work or in any area where
employees are engaged in work at any time under circumstances which management
determines interfere with the efficient operations of the village.
   (E)   The solicitation and distribution prohibitions set forth in divisions
(C) and (D) above shall not apply to solicitation and/or distribution by the
village or its managerial staff, when such is part of the normal operation of
village business.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.026 EMPLOYEES’ PERSONAL LIFE AND DEBTS.
   Employees shall handle their personal lives, including their financial
obligations, in such a manner that it will not interfere with the efficient
operation of village business or the performance of their own job
responsibilities.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.027 USE OF VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   Employees shall not use village property, equipment, or vehicles except in
the performance of their official duty, nor shall they permit the use of
village property by an unauthorized person, unless approved by the Village
Council and/or the Board of Public Affairs. Employees shall immediately report
the loss or damage of village equipment to the Village Council and/or the Board
of Public Affairs.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.028 UNIFORMS, DRESS, AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Employees, supplied uniforms by the village, are expected to wear
uniforms in the performance of their job and shall report in a clean full
uniform on each day worked. Uniforms must also be worn in the manner prescribed
by the Village Personnel Committee. Failure to comply may result in the
employee being sent home for the day without pay. Repetition of such conduct
shall subject the employee to further discipline.
   (B)   Employees not supplied uniforms are expected to report to work in
clean clothes.
   (C)   Employees are expected to observe normal and reasonable standards of
personal hygiene and to present a professional appearance at all times. Failure
to do so may result in the employee being sent home to correct the situation or
for the day without pay. Repetition of such conduct shall subject the employee
to further discipline.
   (D)   All hair, beards, and mustaches must be of a length so as not to
create operational or possible safety problems and must be maintained in a
clean, neat, and orderly fashion.
   (E)   Uniforms supplied by the village will be replaced by the village when
they become unusable through normal wear and tear. A request to replace a
uniform shall be submitted to the Village Council and/or Board of Public
Affairs.
   (F)   The employee is responsible to reimburse the village for uniforms lost
or damaged through the employee’s negligence.
   (G)   The village will withhold from the employee’s pay reimbursement under
division (F) above up to the maximum allowed by applicable law.
   (H)   Village issued uniforms may not be worn at times other than during the
performance of village duties and during the normal trip to and from the
employee’s place of residency.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.029 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Employees are expected to be aware that they are public service
employees and to conduct themselves in a manner, which will in no way discredit
the village, public officials, fellow employees, or themselves.
   (B)   Employees shall avoid conduct or speech that is inconsistent with good
order and discipline. They shall treat each other with the utmost courtesy and
respect and at all times refrain from making any derogatory remarks concerning
each other. They shall direct and coordinate their efforts toward establishing
and maintain the highest level of efficiency, morale, and achievement, and
shall conduct themselves in such a manner as to bring about harmony among the
various units of the village.
   (C)   No employee whose duties involve the use of a badge, card, or clothing
insignia as evidence of authority or for identification shall permit such
badges, cards, or insignia to be used or worn by anyone who is not authorized
to use or wear them. Such badges, cards, and insignia shall be used only in the
performance of the official duties of the position to which they are related.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
TYPES AND TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT
§ 33.040 BASIS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Employees are employed by the village as either regular full-time, permanent
part-time, part-time, seasonal, or temporary employees.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.041 PARTICIPATION IN BENEFITS.
   All regular full-time employees are eligible to participate in all village
benefits. Permanent part-time employees may receive part-time benefits. Other
employees do not participate in employee benefit plans unless a particular plan
so provides or unless required by law.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.042 EMPLOYMENT TERMS.
   (A)   All full-time employees who are not working-superintendents or at-will
shall continue as employees unless they are terminated, laid-off, retired, or
otherwise leave village employment as provided in these rules.
   (B)   Part-time, temporary, and full-time employees who have not
successfully completed their initial probationary period, as defined in §
33.008, serve at the will and pleasure of the village and may be disciplined or
dismissed for any reason or no reason, subject only to applicable law. Such
employees shall not have access to the grievance procedure set forth in these
rules or any applicable collective bargaining agreement unless the agreement
provides otherwise. All decisions concerning their wages, hours, and working
conditions shall be made by the Village Council.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.043 PROBATIONARY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Subject to §
33.042(B), all regular full-time and permanent part-time employees shall serve
as initial probationary period of 90 continuous calendar days. Said
probationary period may be extended by the Village Council or BPA for up to an
additional 90 days.
   (B)   When an employee is initially hired in a position which has a formal
training program or requires certification licensing, the probationary period
as set forth in division (A) above shall continue until the program,
certification, or licensing is successfully completed.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
HIRING PROCEDURES
§ 33.055 VACANCIES.
   All persons inquiring about employment should be directed to the village
office where they will be required to complete the standard application form.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.056 BASIS FOR SELECTION.
   (A)   Employment with the village shall be based on skills, experience,
training, education, ability, physical and mental ability to do the available
work and other factors that are related to the performance of the job in
question.
   (B)   As part of the pre-employment procedure former supervisors, employers,
and references provided by candidates shall be checked as a precaution against
obtaining undesirable employees. Reference checks will be documented and made
part of the applicant’s file.
   (C)   The village reserves the right to reject any applicant for any reason
or no reason subject only to applicable law.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.057 TESTING.
   At its option and expense, the village will use legal physical, written, or
oral examinations and performance tests to assist it in the selection process.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.058 DRUG TESTING.
   Subject to applicable law, the village shall require submission to and
successful passing of testing for the use of illegal controlled substances as a
condition of employment or continued employment with the village.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.059 DISABILITY AND MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS.
   (A)   All full-time position applicants shall be required to take a medical
examination and pass a drug screen after they have been offered employment.
   (B)   If, with the prior approval of the Village Council and/or the Board of
Public Affairs, an applicant is placed on the payroll prior to having completed
a required medical examination, he or she shall be advised at the time he or
she is placed on the payroll that his or her employment will be conditional
upon successful passage of a medical examination.
   (C)   Employees may be required to take a medical and/or psychological
examination at any time by the village for reasons connected with their job
(e.g., an accident on the job, fitness for duty).
   (D)   Applicants and employees who are directed to take a medical
examination under divisions (A), (B), or (C) above and who refused to do so
will be automatically terminated.
   (E)   Subject to applicable law, all medical examinations required to be
taken under divisions (A) and (B) above shall include drug testing to determine
the presence or absence of illegal controlled substance in their body. During
testing above will be conducted under the village drug-free workplace and
alcohol policy in §§
33.335 through
33.338.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
TYPES OF SEPARATIONS
§ 33.070 TYPES OF SEPARATION.
   Separations and/or terminations from positions in village service are
designated as one of the following types. Personnel forms shall show the reason
for the separation and the last day worked. The effective date of the
separation shall be the last day on which the employee is eligible for
compensation.
   (A)   Deceased;
   (B)   Disabled;
   (C)   Dismissed;
   (D)   Laid off;
   (E)   Probationary termination;
   (F)   Resigned;
   (G)   Retired; and
   (H)   End of temporary hire.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.071 RESIGNATION.
   An employee wishing to leave the village in good standing shall file with
the Village Personnel Committee a written resignation, stating the date and
reasons for his or her resignation. Such notice must be given at least two
weeks prior to the date of separation and the employee must work each regularly
scheduled day during said two week period to maintain good standing status.
Employees who give such notice may be considered for reemployment. With Village
Personnel Committee approval, he or she may exempt an employee who has given
less than the required notice if, in the village’s judgment, exceptional
circumstances warrant such an exemption.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.072 RETIREMENT.
   Retirement from the village employment occurs when an employee retires under
the terms and conditions set forth for the Ohio Public Employees Retirement
System (OPERS).
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.073 DEATH.
   Separation shall be effective as of the date of death. All compensation and
benefits due to the employee as of the effective date of separation shall be
paid to the beneficiary, surviving spouse, or to the estate of the employee as
determined by law or by executed forms in the employee’s personnel folder.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.074 REDUCTION IN FORCE (LAYOFF).
   Reductions in force shall be in accordance with §§
33.125 through
33.128.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.075 DISABILITY.
   When an employee is determined to have a legally recognized disability which
impairs his or her ability to perform the essential functions of the job, which
he or she still cannot perform with reasonable accommodation and without undue
hardship to the village, the Village Council may take whatever action it deems
in the best interest of the village.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.076 DISMISSAL OR DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Temporary, part-time, seasonal, and probationary employees are subject
to dismissal from village employment pursuant to §
33.042(B).
   (B)   Subject to §
33.004(B) and (C), regular full-time employees are subject to dismissal from
village from village employment pursuant to §
33.155.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.077 RETURN OF PROPERTY AND FINANCIAL OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   At the time of separation from employment, the employee shall return
all records, books, assets, uniforms, keys, tools, and other items of village
property to his or her department. Failure to return same in usable condition
shall result in the maximum deduction allowed by law from the employee’s final
paycheck. Any balance due over and above the amount deducted from the
employee’s paycheck may be collected by the village through appropriate legal
action.
   (B)   All deductions under division (A) above shall be subject to applicable
state and federal laws.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
TRANSFER AND WORK OUT OF CLASSIFICATION
§ 33.090 TEMPORARY TRANSFERS/WORK OUT OF CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   An employee assigned for 30 calendar days or more to a position in a
higher pay grade shall have a rate increase retroactive to the first day of the
transfer.
   (B)   When an employee temporarily works in a lower paid job classification,
he or she shall receive the rate of pay for his or her regular job
classification.
   (C)   A routine assumption of duties that occurs in the absence of another
employee on vacation or with a short-term illness is not a transfer and does
not affect salary.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.091 PERMANENT TRANSFERS.
   (A)   An employee may be permanently transferred from one job classification
or department to another job classification or department:
      (1)   At the employee’s request, if, in the opinion of the Village
Personnel Committee, it is in the village’s best interest; or
      (2)   By the Village Personnel Committee for operational or efficiency
reasons.
   (B)   When an employee is permanently transferred, the following may occur.
      (1)   If transferred to a position in the same pay grade, his or her rate
of pay will remain the same.
      (2)   If transferred to a position in a higher pay grade, his or her rate
of pay will be the minimum rate in the new pay grade.
      (3)   If transferred to a position with lower pay, his or her rate of pay
may be adjusted according to the rate of pay for the position.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
PROMOTIONS/DEMOTIONS
§ 33.105 NOTICE OF JOB VACANCY (OR POSTING).
   Except with determined operationally necessary and efficiently the Village
Personnel Committee all vacancies within the village will be posted for a
minimum of ten working days. Posted vacancies may also be advertised outside
the village when deemed necessary by the Village Council and/or the Board of
Public Affairs.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.106 APPLICATION.
   Employees who wish to be considered for the vacancy must apply by completing
a new application and turning it into the village’s office during the posting
period.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.107 INTERVIEW.
   All village employee applicants determined by the Village Personnel
Committee and/or BPA to meet the minimum qualifications for the job will be
interviewed. When applicable, the most qualified from among outside applicants,
if any, whom the village determines appear to be better qualified that village
employee applicants will also be interviewed. Please refer to the R.C. § 735.29
regarding BPA’s responsibilities and duties as it related to hiring of
employees.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.108 NO SUFFICIENTLY QUALIFIED APPLICANTS.
   If, after completing the interview and evaluation, the Village Council,
Board of Public Affairs, and/or the Mayor determine that none of the applicants
are sufficiently well qualified for the job, the position should be re-
advertised.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.109 BASIS OF SELECTION.
   When the posting is restricted to village employees, in determining whom to
promote from among qualified employee applicants, if any, the Village of
Personnel Committee shall consider:
   (A)   Qualifications and ability to perform the job;
   (B)   The employee’s past work related experience with the village and
elsewhere; and
   (C)   The employee’s past performance record with the village.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.110 WAGE RATE.
   No employee shall be eligible for promotion to any higher grade unless the
employee has completed an initial probationary period.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.111 DEMOTION.
   (A)   An employee may be demoted to a lower position for any of the
following reasons: an employee’s position is being abolished, an employee’s
position is being reclassified due to a lack of work, lack of funds, being
removed during probation, an employee voluntarily requests a demotion, or for
disciplinary reasons.
   (B)   An employee who is demoted for disciplinary reasons to a position in a
lower grade shall receive a decrease in pay. The amount of the decrease shall
be equal to the difference between the two related pay grades. The employee
will revert to the lower salary rate on the effective date of the demotion.
   (C)   A demoted employee will be required to serve a new probationary
period. Demoted employees may be eligible for consideration for a merit pay
increase one year after the effective date of such demotion, provided the
employee is not at the top step for the pay grade.
   (D)   All demotions must be at the direction of the Village Personnel
Committee and reviewed by the Mayor for compliance with all related PRR and
approved by the Village Council and/or Board of Public Affairs.
   (E)   An employee requesting a demotion shall submit a written request to
the Village Personnel Committee. Consideration for such action will depend on
vacancy availability and other conditions which are deemed necessary as
determined by the Mayor, and as approved by the Village Council.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
SENIORITY LAYOFF AND RECALL
§ 33.125 LAYOFF SELECTION.
   (A)   In the event the village decides to lay off employees within a
department, the village will first lay off those employees not necessary for
the operational needs of the village.
   (B)   If further layoffs are necessary, selection among regular full-time
employees shall be based upon:
      (1)   Ability to perform all of the work available;
      (2)   Special skills essential to the performance of the available work;
      (3)   Job performance as reflected by the performance evaluations; and
      (4)   Departmental classification longevity.
   (C)   When, in the opinion of the Village Council, divisions (B)(1), (B)(2),
and (B)(3) above are relatively equal among employees, division (B)(4) shall
prevail.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.126 PERMANENT LAYOFFS.
   (A)   In some cases, the village may utilize a layoff under circumstances
where there is no reasonable expectation to return to work. Such layoffs will
be designated permanent and the employee(s) laid off shall not be eligible for
recall for his or her previous position.
   (B)   Full-time employees who have completed their initial probationary
period and who are scheduled to be laid off for lack of work, funds, or other
reasons where there is no fault on the part of the employee shall be eligible
to receive compensation as prescribed by the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.127 RECALL
   Except for employees laid off pursuant to §
33.126, regular full-time employees who are recalled by the village within 12
months shall be reinstated in their previous position and at the same
compensation level at the time of lay off.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.128 DECISIONS FINAL.
   Decisions made pursuant to this section shall be final and shall not be
subject to the grievance procedure in §
33.156.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
ATTENDANCE/TARDINESS
§ 33.140 PRESENT AND ON TIME.
   All employees are expected to report for duty at the scheduled time and
remain there until the scheduled leaving time. The Village Personnel Committee
shall be responsible for the attendance and timeliness of all employees of the
village.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.141 CALL-IN.
   Employees are required to call in before they are scheduled to report to
work when they are going to be absent or late. The call should be made to the
village office and one co-worker. Failure to call in before the employee’s
shift begins will subject the employee to discipline, unless the Village
Personnel Committee is satisfied that the failure to call in was for a reason
beyond the employee’s control. Employees leaving prior to the end of his or her
normal shift shall notify the village office prior to leaving.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.142 VERIFICATION.
   The Village Personnel Committee may require an employee to establish to its
satisfaction that an absence or tardiness was for a legitimate reason. Such
proof, in the case of sickness or injury, may include the presentation of a
medical doctor’s excuse from a doctor acceptable to the village. Refer to §
33.205(B)(2).
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.143 CONTINUING ABSENCE.
   In the case of a continuing absence, the employee must call in each day
unless otherwise instructed or pre-approved by the Village Personnel Committee.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
PROCEDURES
§ 33.155 EMPLOYEE DISCIPLINE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Employees hold their positions during good behavior and efficient
services. Poor job performance or inappropriate behavior, including, but not
limited to, incompetence, inefficiency, dishonesty, drunkenness, immoral
conduct, insubordination, discourteous treatment of the public, neglect of
duty, failure of good behavior, any other acts of misfeasance, malfeasance, or
non-feasance in office, or conviction of a felony can lead to disciplinary
action against an employee.
   (B)   There are four major types of disciplinary action: removal,
suspension, reduction in pay, and reduction in position. Normally, discipline
will be progressive in the nature as noted below:
      (1)   First offense verbal warning;
      (2)   Second offense written reprimand;
      (3)   Third offense suspension, demotion, or termination with cause; and
      (4)   Fourth offense termination.
   (C)   Serious infractions can result in immediate discharge without
intermediate discipline.
   (D)   Employees are entitled to a pre-disciplinary hearing before any
suspension, discharge, reduction in pay or position, or fine becomes effective.
The hearing shall be conducted by the Village Personnel Committee. Employees in
their probationary period are not entitled to pre-disciplinary hearings. The
Council and/or Board of Public Affairs will review the independent pre-
disciplinary decision before deciding upon appropriate disciplinary action.
   (E)   The Council or Board of Public Affairs may require an employee who is
suspended to report to work to serve the suspension. An employee serving a
suspension in this manner may continue to be compensated at a reduced rate of
pay.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.156 GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   In the event that an employee has a complaint related to a work
assignment, or other work related matter, the employee may bring the matter to
the Village Council President or Board of Public Affairs for resolution.
   (B)   If the problem is not resolved, the employee may take it to Village
Personnel Committee.
   (C)   If the employee still feels the problem needs resolution, he or she
may submit the problem, in writing, to the Village Council or Board of Public
Affairs. The Village Council or Board of Public Affairs will conduct a hearing
at which time the employee may present any relevant evidence to support the
complaint.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
HOURS OF WORK AND OVERTIME
§ 33.170 HOURS OF WORK.
   (A)   The village shall establish the hours of work in accordance with the
operational needs of the village but should attempt to avoid overtime work
except where operationally necessary. Tasks of regular employment should be
completed during regular working hours and are not cause for overtime/
emergency call out pay.
   (B)   Employees shall be scheduled for an unpaid lunch break of not less
than one-half hour. Employees requesting a longer lunch break must get approval
from the Village Personnel Committee and will not be paid for the time.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019;
Ord. 1668, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 33.171 REGULAR WORK WEEK OR PERIOD.
   Except for employees on a FLSA § 7(K) schedule in the Police Department:
   (A)   The regular work week for regular full-time employees shall be forty
hours in a seven day period. The Village Personnel Committee may establish the
basic work schedule and hours of work best suited to meet the needs of the
departments and the village to provide proper service to the community. Nothing
in these rules shall be construed as a guarantee or limitation of the number of
hours to be worked per week.
   (B)   The basic work schedule shall be from Monday through Friday of each
week unless specified or scheduled by the Village Personnel Committee to meet
the requirements of the village or individual departments. When the Village
Personnel Committee deems it necessary, a work schedule may be established
other than the basic Monday through Friday schedule.
   (C)   Regular working hours for field staff shall be 7:00 a.m. — 3:30 p.m.
with a half hour unpaid lunch break.
   (D)   Regular working hours for office staff shall be between 8:00 a.m. — 4:
00 p.m. with no lunch break.
   (E)   Any deviation from this schedule must be pre-approved, excluding the
occasional change to accommodate needs for the day.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019;
Ord. 1668, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 33.172 OVERTIME.
   (A)   Except for employees on a FLSA Section 7(K) schedule in the Police
Department: Employees shall be paid at a rate of one and one-half their regular
hourly rate after 40 hours in a seven day work period.
   (B)   ACTIVE PAY STATUS, for the purpose of overtime, is defined as all
hours worked or approved as paid leave, including vacation, sick/personal
leave, and holidays. Compensatory time does not apply towards "active pay
status" as it has already been compensated at time and a half.
   (C)   Employees (including permanent part-time employees) who are called
back to work shall be paid a minimum of two hours of overtime (per O.R.C. this
is equivalent of three hours straight time) pay regardless of the amount of
time worked.
   (D)   An emergency call-out is defined as being summoned to physically
return to work after an assigned regular shift and signing/clocking out. This
does not include continuing to work on a job after an eight-hour day, this will
be paid as regular overtime. No overtime or call-out pay will apply if an
employee leaves the job prior to completing an eight-hour shift and returns
after hours, in a non-emergency capacity, to complete their eight-hour shift.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019;
Ord. 1668, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 33.173 ASSIGNMENT AND WORKING OVERTIME.
   (A)   Overtime will be authorized or directed only when it is in the
interest of the village and is the most practicable and economical way of
meeting workloads or deadlines. Employees are to work only overtime as
authorized but must report all hours worked to ensure compliance with the FLSA
regardless of whether the work is authorized or not.
   (B)   Employees are required to work overtime when assigned unless excused
by the Village Personnel Committee. An employee desiring to be excused from
overtime work assignments shall submit a request to the Village Personnel
Committee who shall rule on the request.
   (C)   Overtime does not need to be approved in the case of an emergency
during regular working hours that require work to continue to completion after
regular hours.
   (D)   Overtime will be approved at the discretion of the supervisor.
Employees will note on time clock/time sheets the reason overtime was required.
These notes may be reviewed by the Personnel Committee.
   (E)   Weekend plant checks which are paid at three hour overtime rate will
be four hours during the pool season when pool checks are added to the job.
Shelter House Rental set-up and cleanup are paid at a three hour overtime rate.
These are excluded from the 40-hour rule.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019;
Ord. 1668, passed 7-2-2024)
HOLIDAYS AND VACATION
§ 33.185 LIST OF LEGAL HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   The village recognizes the following holidays:
 
New Year’s Day       Veterans Day
Martin Luther King Day Thanksgiving
President’s Day      Friday after Thanksgiving
Memorial Day           One-half day December 24
Independence Day       Christmas Day
Labor Day              Personal Day
Juneteenth Day          
 
   (B)   When a holiday falls on a Saturday or Sunday, the following Monday or
the preceding Friday will be declared a holiday for village employees, as
determined by the Village Council.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019;
Ord. 1630, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 33.186 REQUIREMENTS TO RECEIVE HOLIDAY COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Subject to division (F) below, all eligible employees will receive one
workday off with pay for each of the holidays.
   (B)   An employee must be on active pay status and work the normal schedule
of hours on the regularly scheduled working day immediately prior to a holiday
and the regularly scheduled working day immediately following a holiday, in
order to qualify for the holiday time.
   (C)   Employees who are on vacation leave or other leave with pay during the
holiday will receive holiday compensation. Employees who are required by their
Supervisor to work on the day observed as a holiday must work that day to be
eligible to receive holiday pay. Any employee who is scheduled to work on the
day observed as a holiday and reports sick will be charged with sick leave for
that day and will not receive holiday pay subject to §
33.189.
   (D)   Employees scheduled to work on a holiday, and who in fact do work,
shall receive pay at the normal straight rate or overtime, whichever applies,
for the actual number of hours worked that day, plus a normal day’s pay for the
holiday provided they meet the eligibility requirements.
   (E)   Employees, whose normal day off from work falls on a holiday shall
receive holiday pay at the normal straight rate for the day, provided they meet
the eligibility requirements.
   (F)   Non-exempt regular part-time employees who meet the eligibility
requirements will be paid the number of hours they would normally be scheduled
to work.
   (G)   When a holiday falls on a day a part-time employee is not scheduled to
work, no holiday pay will be paid
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.187 ELIGIBILITY AND ACCRUAL.
   (A)   All permanent part-time employees with regular scheduled hours and
full-time employees will receive vacation based on their previous years of
employment.
   (B)   For their first partial year of service vacation will be earned as
follows.
      (1)   One-day of vacation will be issued for each full month of
employment up to a maximum of ten days and will be issued on January 1 of the
subsequent year.
      (2)   For full calendar years of continuous service, vacation will be
earned and issued on January 1 of the subsequent year as follows:
 
1 to 5 years   2 weeks
6 to 10 years  3 weeks
11 to 25 years 4 weeks
After 25 years 5 weeks
 
   (C)   All other employees are not entitled to vacation leave.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.188 CONDITIONS OF USE.
   (A)   Employees requesting one week or more of vacation shall give notice to
the Mayor, Village Council, or the Board of Public Affairs in advance for their
approval of the employees scheduled vacation. Employees entitled to three or
more weeks’ vacation shall not schedule more than two weeks consecutively
unless otherwise approved by the Village Council or Board of Public Affairs.
Requests for vacation should be submitted at a minimum of two weeks prior to
the requested time off.
   (B)   Village employees are required to take their vacation in the calendar
year following the year it is accrued. Unused vacation time cannot be carried
from one year to the next or receive payment in lieu of actually taking
vacation.
   (C)   Employees who are on vacation leave or other leave with pay during the
holiday will receive holiday compensation at regular wages.
   (D)   Compensatory time may be taken only in not less than one hour
increments.
   (E)   In the event of an employee’s death, his or her beneficiary or estate,
in the absence of a designated beneficiary, shall be paid for unused vacation.
   (F)   Employees who retire, are permanently laid off, resign, or voluntarily
terminated will receive any unused and/or accrued vacation earned up to their
last full month of employment. Any employee who is involuntarily terminated
from their position will be ineligible to receive any unused and/or accrued
vacation earned or use unused vacation time to extend the termination date.
   (G)   If an employee is on vacation and an emergency arise, (i.e., snow
plowing, water break, etc.) and is called into work, the employee will:
      (1)   Take another vacation day; or
      (2)   If there is no other time available to take another vacation day
and the employee received approval by either the Village Council or the Board
of Public Affairs, the employee will be compensated at the overtime rate for
their actual hours worked (or a minimum of two hours) plus their vacation pay.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019;
Ord. 1653, passed 1-16-2024)
§ 33.189 USE OF VACATION.
   (A)   Vacation time may be taken only in not less than one hour increments.
   (B)   Vacation may be used with prior approval of the Village Personnel
Committee and/or BPA for the following purposes:
      (1)   Approved vacation;
      (2)   Absences for transacting person business which cannot be conducted
during off duty hours;
      (3)   Religious holidays other than those designated by the Village
Council as official holidays;
      (4)   For uncompensated approved absences due to medical, dental, or
optical reasons once paid medical leave has been exhausted;
      (5)   Any approved uncompensated leave of absence, including leaves under
the FMLA; and
      (6)   For approved emergency leave beyond that paid under §§
33.225 through
33.227.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.190 PAYOFF OF UNUSED VACATION HOURS.
   (A)   In no event will an employee be allowed to take vacation in
conjunction with termination, i.e., to extend the termination date.
   (B)   In the event of an employee’s death, his or her beneficiary or estate,
in the absence of a designated beneficiary, shall be paid for unused vacation.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.191 COMPENSATORY TIME.
   (A)   Any hours worked outside of those scheduled shall be compensated at a
rate of time and one-half or by compensatory time off. Compensatory time is
limited to 40 hours, with no carryover, and is granted by the Council and/or
Board of Public Affairs. Compensatory time cannot be used a day before or after
a holiday. All full-time employees are eligible for compensatory time and:
      (1)   Shall not keep more than 40 hours on the books at any time,
      (2)   May re-accumulate compensatory time up to 40 hours, and
      (3)   Once compensatory time is built up to 40 hours, the employee shall
be paid overtime for any hours worked outside of those scheduled.
   (B)   Compensatory time off can be used throughout the year by the employee
just like vacation time as outlined in the Personnel Handbook with one
exception, due to compensatory time being time worked, any unused compensatory
time shall be cashed out the second pay period of December of each year.
   (C)   Compensatory time shall not be carried over to the next year. The
Department of Labor issued a new rule that updates the regulations on salaried
employees that are entitled to the Fair Labor Standards Act’s minimum wage and
overtime protection. Beginning December 1, 2016, the Village of Pemberville
shall pay overtime or provide compensatory time to salary workers for overtime
hours in excess of 40 per week.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019;
Ord. 1653, passed 1-16-2024)
SICK LEAVE
§ 33.205 SICK LEAVE ACCRUAL AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Sick leave with pay shall be accrued by all regular full-time and
permanent part-time employees and will be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Probationary employees may be granted sick leave with pay, up to
the amount accrued.
      (2)   No more than 1,440 hours of sick leave may be accrued at any time
by any employee.
      (3)   For full-time regular employees, sick leave shall accrue at the
rate of 4.6 hours per 80 hour pay period. Permanent part-time employees
assigned a regular schedule of 20 or more hours shall accrue sick leave at 4.6
hours per 80 hours worked. No other employees accrue paid sick leave.
      (4)   Employee must be on active status.
   (B)   In order to be granted sick leave with pay, an employee must meet the
following conditions:
      (1)   Notify the Clerk’s office not later than one hour prior to the
beginning of the schedule workday of the reason for such employee’s absence;
      (2)   Submit a written request to the Clerk’s office for such sick leave
on the form and in the manner prescribed, and submit, if requested by the
Clerk’s office, a medical certificate signed by a physician satisfactory to the
village stating the kind and nature of the sickness or injury of the employee
and describing the period of absence from work that will be necessary. If the
employee is out for an extended period, the employee must provide a written
release from the physician stating that the employee is again able to perform
the duties of his or her position before returning to work; and
      (3)   The employee shall provide the Clerk’s office with a copy of all
approved sick leave requests requesting more than three consecutive days or
shifts, no later than the next business day after such requests are approved.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.206 CHARGING.
   In computing sick leave taken, employees shall be charged one hour sick
leave for each hour not worked because of illness.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.207 USE.
   (A)   Paid sick leave may be used provided it is approved for the following
purposes:
      (1)   Bona fide sickness, injury, or disability off the job;
      (2)   Medical, dental, optical, or chiropractic examination or treatment
which cannot be schedule during non-duty hours;
      (3)   Illness of a member of the employee’s immediate family which
requires the personal care or attention of the employee, or the death of a
member of the employee’s immediate family as defined in §
33.008; and
      (4)   An unpaid leave under the FMLA.
   (B)   Use of medical leave for any purpose not specified above may be
considered misconduct and result in disciplinary action.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.208 EXTENDED UNPAID MEDICAL LEAVE.
   (A)   When paid medical leave and accrued vacation leave are exhausted for
absence due to bona fide sickness, disability, or injury, the employee may be
given extended medical leave without pay for up to six months. However, no
benefits such as holidays, vacations, emergency leave, and paid medical leave
accrue during such unpaid leave unless the leave is FMLA leave in which case §§
33.260 through
33.270 applies.
   (B)   The village retains the right to require the employee to submit to
another medical examination by a doctor of the village’s choice at the
village’s expense to verify the employee’s inability to work.
   (C)   The employee shall be required to return to work not later than the
last day of the leave granted, unless prior to that time, the employee has
obtained permission from the Board of Public Affairs or Village Personnel
Committee to extend the medical leave or has applied for and been granted
additional time off as allowed by these rules.
   (D)   The employee may continue his or her group medical plan insurance
during such absence provided the employee pays the full premium by the time
each month and in the manner required by the village. For continuation of
insurance during FMLA leave, §§
33.260 through
33.270.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.209 SICK LEAVE DONATION.
   (A)   Any employee may donate sick leave to another employee who is in need
of additional leave for a personal, debilitating illness or accident which
substantially delays his or her ability to resume duty, so that the employee
will continue receiving compensation.
   (B)   Such donation requires the following circumstances:
      (1)   The sick employee has a satisfactory work record, has exhausted his
or her sick leave, and all accumulated vacation and is on approved sick leave;
      (2)   The sick employee does not appear to have abused sick leave
benefits prior to the current illness;
      (3)   Time may be donated in minimum increments of eight hours by any
employee eligible to accrue and use sick leave up to a maximum donation of 40
hours per fiscal year. The maximum amount of donations an employee may receive
in any one fiscal year is 800 hours;
      (4)   If the receiving employee returns to work or leaves employment
prior to using all of the donated sick leave, the amounts remaining will be
returned to the employees that donated time on a prorated basis;
      (5)   Donations will be credited to the receiving employee on an hour for
hour basis, regardless of differences in the rates of pay between the donating
and receiving employees; and
      (6)   All donations must be pre-approved by the Village Council, Board of
Public Affairs, or Village Personnel Committee. Employees will not be penalized
for making donations if they are otherwise eligible for the sick leave award in
any given year.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.210 SICK LEAVE PAYOUT.
   (A)   Upon voluntary separation of employment, an employee shall receive
payment for sick leave time according to the following schedule provided all of
the following conditions have been met:
 
Years of Service Percentage of Sick Leave Accrual Payment
0 - 9 years      0%
10 - more years  25%
 
      (1)   The employee shall have been a full-time/permanent part-time
employee of the village for at least ten years; and
      (2)   The ten years’ service of the employee shall have been consecutive
and uninterrupted up to the time of his or her separation from village
employment, with the exception of time spent in military service, provided the
employee has returned to village service within one year of the normal date of
honorable discharge or separation or following an extension beyond the normal
date of separation.
   (B)   There shall be no payout of accumulated sick leave for employees who
are involuntarily terminated.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.211 SICK LEAVE AWARD.
   (A)   In an effort to encourage use of paid sick leave only when absolutely
necessary and as an incentive for good attendance, all permanent part-time and
full-time employees shall be eligible for additional vacation leave or pay at
their straight time rate at the time of the award.
   (B)   The award, if any will be based on the employee’s use of sick leave
during the prior anniversary year based on the scheduled below.
Sick Leave Used Hours Awarded
Sick Leave Used Hours Awarded
None            16
1 hour          15
2 hours         14
3 hours         13
4 hours         12
5 hours         11
6 hours         10
7 hours         09
8 hours         08
9 hours         07
10 hours        06
11 hours        05
12 hours        04
13 hours        03
14 hours        02
15 hours        01
 
   (C)   For each sick leave hour used, one hour sick leave award shall be
subtracted to a maximum 16 hours.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.212 LIGHT DUTY.
   If an employee is released by his or her physician for “light-duty”, return
to light duty shall be at the option of the village based on its operational
needs. Refusal to accept a light-duty assignment by the village, which the
employee is capable of performing in accordance with applicable law, will
result in termination of employment.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
§ 33.225 LEAVE.
   (A)   Approved leave in the event of the death of a member of a regular
full-time employee’s immediate family (as defined in §
33.226) will be granted as follows: up to 24 hours with pay if the funeral is
in the state and up to 40 hours with pay if the funeral is outside of the
state.
   (B)   The employee may be required to provide the Village Personnel
Committee with proof satisfactory to it of death in the employee’s immediate
family and that the employee attended the funeral before compensation will be
approved.
   (C)   If, in the opinion of the Village Personnel Committee, additional days
off are necessary, accrued vacation and medical leave may be used or the
employee may be given additional time off without pay.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.226 IMMEDIATE FAMILY.
   Defined in §
33.008.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.227 EXCEPTIONS.
   The Village Personnel Committee may grant additional time off for
bereavement leave with or without pay under extenuating circumstances.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
MILITARY LEAVE POLICY
§ 33.240 PERFORMING MILITARY SERVICE.
   The village shall not refuse to employ or discharge any employee because of
military membership or prevent employees from performing any military service.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.241 PROCEDURE FOR REQUESTING MILITARY LEAVE.
   (A)   For voluntary or involuntary active military duty, employees must have
military orders, in most cases printed and distributed prior to the active duty
date but in some cases printed and/or distributed after the individual has
progressed two or three days into the active duty period.
   (B)   Employees must provide copies of their orders to the Mayor, Fiscal
Officer, and BPA, if appropriate, at least two weeks in advance of the leave
date or as soon as they need for leave is known, whichever is earlier. If
deployed prior to orders being issued, employees must submit a letter (on
military unit letterhead) signed by the military commander as a temporary
document until orders are received.
   (C)   Employees must include “appropriate and reasonable travel time” to and
from the military duty station in the total leave requested (not to exceed 180
days - i.e., if an employee is ordered to active military duty (or volunteers)
for a period of 45 days at a location of less than 100 miles, the employee
should request military leave for 47 days).
   (D)   The village cannot deny military leave for failure to properly notify
the appointing authority. However, employees on military leave without written
or verbal notification to their supervisor or department head may receive
disciplinary action.
   (E)   No single leave of absence or combination of uniformed service leaves
of absence may exceed five years or a single, longer period required to
complete an initial period of obligated service, unless otherwise permitted in
38 U.S.C. § 4312(c).
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.242 MILITARY LEAVE WITH PAY.
   (A)   Employees are entitled to military leave with pay for a period not to
exceed 22 eight hour days (176 hours) per calendar year. This paid leave may be
for one continuous period or for intermittent service.
   (B)   Employees continue to accrue sick and vacation leave according to the
village’s policies during this paid leave.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.243 MILITARY LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   (A)   Military leave without pay begins when paid military leave (22 eight
hour days/176 hours per year) is exhausted, and the employee has either used
his or her available leave balances or declines to use them.
   (B)   Employees on military leave without pay do not accrue sick, vacation,
or personal leave.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.244 MILITARY LEAVE DUE TO PRESIDENTIAL, CONGRESSIONAL, OR GUBERNATIONAL
ORDER.
   For military service that exceeds 30 days continuous service due to a
presidential, congressional, or gubernatorial order, employees may submit
documentation to their payroll officer to determine eligibility for additional
pay as calculated below, the lesser of the following:
   (A)   The difference between the current gross monthly wage and the sum of
the gross military pay and allowances received that month; or
   (B)   Five hundred dollars.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.245 BENEFITS.
   (A)   The village’s benefits continue for employees on military leave for
any period of less than 30 consecutive days subject to their normal payroll
deduction rates. The employee may be required to self-pay the normal payroll
deduction.
   (B)   Employees on military leave for more than 30 consecutive days may
elect to self-pay the entire monthly health benefit premium plus 2% (COBRA
rate) to continue coverage for up to 24 months.
   (C)   Upon return from military leave, employees may apply for immediate
reenrollment in the village’s health benefits.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.246 REINSTATEMENT FROM MILITARY LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   (A)   An employee returning from military leave without pay must make
written application for reinstatement with the appointing authority within the
following designated time:
      (1)   Active duty service of less than 30 days, immediately upon release
from active duty;
      (2)   Active duty service of 31 to 180 days, within 14 days upon release
from active duty; and
      (3)   Active duty service in excess of 181 days, within 90 days upon
release from active duty.
   (B)   If the leave of absence was more than 90 days, the employee shall
submit a copy of the discharge (DD Form 214) or certificate of service noting
an honorable discharge.
   (C)   The employee shall be returned to the same or similar position within
the employee’s former classification. If the period of duty lasts more than 90
days, the employee may be placed in any position of equivalent status,
seniority, and pay.
   (D)   Upon return to village employment, veterans must be physically
qualified to perform the duties of their position. If disabled by military
service, the county will make a reasonable accommodation to enable veterans to
work at the same or equivalent position.
   (E)   A reinstated employee is entitled to all salary, benefits, or other
advancement during their military leave of absence as follows:
      (1)   All sick leave, vacation leave, and compensatory time which had
been accumulated at the time of entering service;
      (2)   All seniority which would have accrued had the employee been on the
job including the addition of military leave without pay in calculating service
time for vacation accrual;
      (3)   Automatic salary adjustments associated with the position and due
the employee had the employee been on the job;
      (4)   Any change in classification or pay range which would be due to the
employee has the employee been on the job; and
      (5)   Reinstated health insurance and related insurance benefits with no
waiting periods or pre-existing exclusions.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
FAMILY MEDICAL LEAVE
§ 33.260 POLICY.
   Family and Medical Leave Act, these administrative instructions establish
the village’s policy with respect to compliance with the Family and Medical
Leave Act (FMLA) as defined in the final regulations released by the Department
of Labor (DOL).
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.261 INSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 establishes the right for
“eligible” employees to take up to 12 weeks of unpaid, job-protected leave
during a calendar year for certain family and medical reasons. Employees are
“eligible” if they have been on the village’s payroll for at least 12 twelve
months and have worked at least 1,250 hours during the 12 months prior to the
commencement of the leave. The 12 months do not have to be consecutive, in
determining the hours worked, vacation, personal, sick leave, or unpaid leave
would not be included. Overtime hours would be considered hours worked.
However, an employee’s entitlement to leave for the birth or placement of son
or daughter for adoption or foster care shall expire at the end of the 12-month
period beginning on the date of such birth or placement.
   (B)   Eligible employees whose spouse, son, daughter, or parent is on
covered active duty or called to covered active duty status may use their 12-
week leave entitlement to address certain qualifying exigencies. FMLA also
includes a special leave entitlement that permits eligible employees to take up
to 26 weeks of leave to care for a covered service member during a single 12-
month period.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.262 REASON FOR TAKING LEAVE.
   An eligible employee may be granted leave for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   For incapacity due to pregnancy or prenatal medical care;
   (B)   For the “birth” and/or care of the employee’s “son or daughter”
(includes natural birth or placement for adoption or foster care);
   (C)   For the care of the employee’s parent. Spouse, son, or daughter with a
“serious health condition”;
   (D)   For a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to
perform one or more of the essential functions of his or her position;
   (E)   For a spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin to care for a
covered service-member who is recovering from a serious illness or injury
sustained in the line of duty on active duty, up to 26 weeks of leave may be
taken; and
   (F)   For any qualifying exigency related to the employee’s spouse, son,
daughter, or parent who is a covered service-member on or called to active
duty.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.263 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTINUING TREATMENT. Involves a period of incapacity:
      (1) Of more than three consecutive calendar days and any subsequent
treatment that also involves at least treatment two or more times by a health
care provider; or treatment by a health care provider on at least one occasion
which results in a regimen of continuous treatment under the supervision of the
health care provider;
      (2)   Due to pregnancy, or for prenatal care, or one treatment which
results in a regimen of continuing treatment under the health care provider’s
supervision;
      (3)   Due to a chronic serious health condition requiring treatment by a
health care provider over an extended period of time and may cause episodic
rather than a continuing period of incapacity (i.e., asthma, diabetes,
epilepsy);
      (4)   Permanent or long-term incapacity due to a condition for which
treatment may not be effective; and
      (5)   Any period of absence to receive multiple treatments by a health
care provider either for restorative surgery after an accident or injury for a
condition such as cancer that would likely result in a period of incapacity of
more than three consecutive calendar days without medical treatment. Treatment
would not include routine physical examinations.
   COVERED SERVICE-MEMBER. 
      (1)   A current member of the Armed Forces, including a member of the
National Guard or Reserves, who is undergoing medical treatment, recuperation,
or therapy; is otherwise in outpatient status; or is otherwise on the temporary
disability retired list for a serious injury or illness; or
      (2)   A veteran who was discharged or released under conditions other
than dishonorable at any time during the five-year period prior to the first
date the eligible employee takes FMLA leave to care for the covered veteran,
and who is undergoing medical treatment recuperation, or therapy for a serious
injury or illness.
   HEALTH CARE PROVIDER. A licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy, or
licensed podiatrist, dentist, clinical psychologist, optometrist, chiropractor
(with certain limitations), nurse practitioner, or nurse midwife.
   PARENT. A biological, adoptive, step or foster father or mother, or any
other individual who stood in loco parentis to the employee when the employee
was a son or daughter as previously defined in this section. This term does not
include parents “in-law”.
   SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION. An illness, injury, impairment, or physical or
mental condition that renders the employee unable to perform his or her job and
involves inpatient care or continuing treatment by a health care provider.
   SERIOUS INJURY OR ILLNESS. For current service-member and veterans are
distinct from the FMLA definition of “serious health condition”.
   SON or DAUGHTER. A biological, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, or a
legal ward that is either under age 18, or age 18 or older, and is incapable of
self-care because of mental or physical disability, as defined by the Americans
with Disabilities Act.
   SPOUSE. A husband or wife that entered in to marriage recognized under the
law of the state where married or if married outside of any state, if valid
where married and valid in at least one state. This includes a same-sex or
common law marriage that either:
      (1)   Was entered into in a state that recognizes such marriage; or
      (2)   If entered into outside of any state, is valid in the place where
entered into and could have been entered into in at least one state as defined
under state law.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.264 SUBSTITUTION OF ACCRUED LEAVE TIME.
   Whenever an employee has accumulated unused sick leave, vacation, or
personal business leave, that time shall be substituted for and counted against
the employee’s 12-week FMLA entitlement. Employees will not be required to
substitute compensatory time for unpaid FMLA leave; however, they may
voluntarily elect to utilize accrued by unused compensatory time in order to
remain in a paid status.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.265 ADVANCE NOTICE.
   (A)   An employee must provide the village with written notice at least 30
days in advance before FMLA leave is to begin if the need for leave is
foreseeable based on an expected birth, placement for adoption or foster care,
or planned medical treatment for a serious health condition of the employee or
immediate family member. Such notice must set forth the reasons for the
requested leave, the anticipated starting date of the leave, and the
anticipated duration.
   (B)   If 30-days’ notice is not practicable under the circumstances, for
example, because of lack of knowledge of when leave will be required, a
substantial change in circumstances, or a medical emergency, notice must be
given as soon as possible after the employee becomes aware of the necessary
scheduling arrangements.
   (C)   If an employee fails to give at least 30-days’ notice of a foreseeable
leave with no reasonable excuse for the delay, the village may deny the taking
of FMLA leave until at least 30 days after the date the employee provides
notice to the village of the need for FMLA leave.
   (D)   Whenever an employee requests FMLA leave to care for a seriously ill
spouse, son, daughter, or parent, or due to the employee’s own serious health
condition, the employee must furnish written certification of the serious
health condition signed by the employee’s or immediate family member’s health
care provider. Such certification should be submitted at the time the employee
requests leave, or in the case of an unforeseen leave, as soon after the leave
commences as possible. Certification can be made using Federal Form WH-380 E or
F, whichever is applicable.
   (E)   The village may require a second opinion from another health care
provider. If the opinions differ, the village may require a third opinion from
a health care provider jointly selected by the village and the employee. The
third health care provider’s opinion shall be final and binding. The costs of
obtaining second or third opinions that have been incurred by an employee or
family member shall be reimbursed by the village. Itemized receipts and
verification of mileage traveled will be required.
   (F)   Whenever an employee requests FMLA leave to care for a covered service
member, who is a spouse, son, daughter, parent, or next of kin, who is
recovering from a serious illness or injury sustained in the line of duty on
active duty or for any qualifying exigency related to the employee’s spouse,
son, daughter, or parent on or called to active duty the employee must furnish
written certification of the need for the leave. Such certification should be
submitted at the time the employee requests leave, or in the case of an
unforeseen leave, as soon after the leave commences as possible. Certification
shall be made using Federal Forms WH-384 or WH-385, whichever is applicable.
   (G)   When accrued sick, vacation, or personal business leave is substituted
for unpaid FMLA leave, the employee must submit to the village a completed
“application for leave” form with medical documentation verifying the necessity
for the leave. These documents must be submitted to the village as soon as
practicable.
   (H)   As a condition of restoring an employee whose FMLA leave was due to
his or her own serious health condition, the employee must present written
certification from a health care provider that the employee is able to resume
work.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.266 RECURRING NOTICE.
   (A)   The village may request recertification of the employee’s or family
member’s condition in accordance with federal regulations governing FMLA. If
the employee provides a statement of intent to return to work, entitlement to
leave and maintenance of health benefits continues. However, if the employee
gives an unequivocal notice of intent not to return to work, the village is no
longer obligated to continue health and dental benefits (other than COBRA
requirements) or to restore the employee to his or her job.
   (B)   Employees who desire to return to work prior to the end of their leave
must give the employer reasonable notice (at least two working days).
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.267 WORK RELATED INJURIES AND ILLNESSES.
   Where an employee suffers a serious injury or illness at work that makes the
employee unable to perform any one or more of the essential functions of the
position, the employee could be eligible for both workers’ compensation
benefits and family medical leave. Time absent from work for work-related
accidents and/or illnesses shall be counted concurrently towards both family
medical leave and workers’ compensation.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.268 INTERMITTENT OR REDUCED LEAVE.
   An employee requesting FMLA leave to care for a seriously ill immediate
family member, or for such employee’s own serious health condition, may take
intermittent leave or work a reduced work schedule if medically necessary.
Intermittent leave may also be taken as a result of the birth of a child or for
the placement of a child for adoption or foster care. If the need for leave is
foreseeable based on planned medical treatment, the village may temporarily
transfer the employee to an available alternative position with equivalent pay
and benefits that better accommodates recurring periods of leave, provided the
employee is qualifies for the position.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.269 JOINT USE OF FMLA LEAVE BY HUSBAND AND WIFE.
   A husband and wife who work for the village and who are eligible for FMLA
leave are permitted to take only a combined total of 12 weeks of leave during
any 12-month period if the leave is taken:
   (A)   For the birth and/or care of the child after birth;
   (B)   For the placement of a son or daughter with the employee for adoption
or foster care or to care for the child after placement; or
   (C)   To care for a parent (but not a parent-in-law) with a serious health
condition.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.270 BENEFITS PROTECTION.
   The village shall maintain the employee’s health and dental coverages for
the duration of a FMLA leave. Premium payments for medical and dental insurance
that are normally the responsibility of the employee shall continue to be paid
by him or her through payroll deduction, regardless of whether the employee has
accrued paid leave time to cover all or part of the FMLA leave the village will
continue to pay its share of the employee’s monthly premiums that it would
otherwise pay if the employee were on paid leave status or otherwise present
for duty.
   (A)   If a FMLA leave request is foreseeable, the employee must make
arrangements with the Village Mayor, Fiscal Officer, and the BPA if appropriate
at the time of requesting FMLA leave as to a payment schedule, or payroll
deduction, to cover his or her share of the medical and dental insurance
premiums coming due during the requested period of FMLA leave. If the need for
leave is unforeseeable, such arrangements must be made with the Village Mayor,
Fiscal Officer, and the BPA if appropriate no later than 35 days after
commencement of the FMLA leave period.
   (B)   If an employee on FMLA leave fails to submit any required premium to
the village within 30 calendar days of the date the premium is due, the village
may discontinue health and dental insurance for such employee. If the village
chooses to discontinue coverage as a result of non-payment of premium(s) after
the 30-day grace period, the employee’s health and dental benefits will be
restored upon the employee’s return to work at the same level and terms as were
provided when leave commenced.
   (C)   If an employee fails to return to work after expiration of such
employee’s FMLA leave entitlement, the village may recover premiums it paid for
maintaining group health and dental plan coverages during the FMLA leave
period, unless the reason the employee fails to return to work is either:
      (1)   The continuation, recurrence, or onset of a serious health
condition; or
      (2)   Other circumstances beyond the employee’s control. The validity of
“circumstances beyond the employee’s control” will be judged by the village of
a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Whenever an employee fails to return from FMLA leave due to “the
continuation, recurrence, or onset” of a serious health condition, such
employee must submit medical certification of the serious health condition to
the village. If such an employee fails to furnish the required certification
within 30 days, the village may recover the health and dental insurance
premiums it paid on such employee’s behalf during the FMLA leave period.
   (E)   Upon return from a FMLA leave the employee shall be restored to the
same position that the employee held when the leave started, if available, or
if such position is unavailable, to an equivalent position with equivalent
benefits, pay, and other terms and conditions of employment.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
COURT/WITNESS LEAVE
§ 33.285 WITNESS LEAVE FOR THE VILLAGE.
   Employees who appear as witnesses on behalf of the village in any judicial
or administrative proceeding or who are directed by the village to testify in
any proceeding shall have all such time treated as compensable work time. The
employee shall be reimbursed (mileage, meals, parking fees, and the like) for
witness leave.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.286 OTHER COURT RELATED LEAVE.
   Those employees who become plaintiffs or defendants in personal litigation
or who testify or appear on behalf of parties and other persons except the
village are not eligible for leave with pay unless they request and are
approved for vacation or personal days under §§
33.185 to 33.191.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.287 JURY LEAVE.
   The village shall make up the difference between a regular permanent part-
time and full-time employees pay for his or her normal schedule provided the
employee:
   (A)   Advised the Village Personnel Committee no later than three working
days before he or she is to report for jury duty or when he or she is first
advised, whichever first occurs;
   (B)   Returns to duty each day he or she is released from jury duty when two
or more hours remain on his or her scheduled work day or shift;
   (C)   Endorses his or her check for jury pay over to the village; and
   (D)   Police officers exempt from jury duty subject only to applicable law.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.288 RETURN TO WORK.
   Employees who attend court or any other legal or administrative proceeding
for only a portion of a regularly scheduled work day are expected to report to
work.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
GENERAL LEAVE WITHOUT PAY
§ 33.300 LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY.
   (Other than family medical leave or in the event that the employee does not
quality for family medical leave)
   (A)   A regular full or permanent part-time employee may be granted leave of
absence without pay for a period not to exceed one year (inclusive of FMLA
leave) for sickness, disability, or other good and sufficient reasons which are
considered to be in the best interest of the village. Such leave shall require
the prior approval of the Village Council and BPA.
   (B)   If, for any reason, the leave of absence without pay is granted, such
leave may subsequently be withdrawn and the employee recalled to service if
determined to be operationally necessary by the village.
   (C)   All employees on leave of absence without pay are subject to
applicable provisions of these rules.
      (1)   Leave without pay shall be granted only when the village determines
it will not adversely affect the interests of the village.
      (2)   Failure of an employee to return to work upon expiration of
approved leave shall result in termination from the village, absent any
unforeseen circumstances as determined by the Village Personnel Committee.
      (3)   An employee granted a leave of absence without pay, and who wishes
to return before the leave period has expired, must make a request to return
early to the Village Personnel Committee as soon as possible to discuss the
possible return to work.
      (4)   No sick leave, vacation leave, or holiday pay will be accrued or
earned by an employee for the time that the employee is on leave without pay.
      (5)   An employee who obtains employment elsewhere, while on authorized
leave of absence without pay, will be terminated by the village.
   (D)   An employee returning from a leave of absence without pay shall be
entitled to employment in the same department and position as when the leave
began, provided an opening exists. If no vacancies exist, the employee may be
offered a lesser position for which he or she is considered by the village to
be qualified. If no such vacancies exist at the time, the employee may be
terminated or the leave extended at the option of the village.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.301 EFFECT OF LEAVES ON INSURANCE COVERAGE.
   (A)   Compensable leave. The village shall continue the employee’s group
life and hospitalization insurance during compensable leave of absence provided
the employee pays his or her share of the premium.
   (B)   Workers’ compensation. The village shall continue the employee’s group
life and hospitalization insurance during an unpaid leave of absence due to a
valid workers’ compensation injury or illness, provided the employee pays his
or her share of the premium. If the employee’s claim is later determined by law
to be invalid, the employee shall reimburse the village for all premiums paid
on his or her behalf during the injury. Failure to repay the village such
premium upon demand or under terms agreeable to the village will result in
termination of employment, and loss of accumulated sick and vacation leave to
the extent necessary to cover the reimbursement. To the extent not fully
reimbursed, the village may collect the premiums by any means allowed by law.
   (C)   Other non-compensable leave. If an employee is on an unpaid leave of
any type other than FMLA leave, including medical leave covered by §
33.209, he or she shall be responsible to pay the full premium for group life
and hospitalization insurance beginning the month in which the leave began. The
employee shall be entitled to continue coverage for the period of the leave
provided he or she pays the premiums subject to any restrictions imposed by the
insurance carrier.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
SEXUAL AND OTHER ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER MISCONDUCT
AND HARASSMENT POLICY
§ 33.315 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this policy is to make all employees of the village aware
that it is the policy of the village that sexual, racial, or other forms of
illegal or improper harassment and misconduct will not be tolerated.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.316 STATEMENT OF POLICY.
   (A)   Sexual harassment is included among the prohibitions of Title VII of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits sex discrimination in employment,
and is prohibited by the village.
   (B)   Sexual harassment consists of unwelcome sexual advances, requests for
sexual favors, or other verbal or physical acts of a sexually based nature,
where submission to such conduct is made a term or condition of employment, or
an employment decision is based on an individual’s acceptance or rejection of
such conduct, or such conduct unreasonably interferes with an individual’s work
performance or created an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment. Sexual harassment involves not only members of the opposite sex
but also of the same sex.
   (C)   Other forms of harassment in addition to sexual harassment are illegal
(such as racial harassment) and/or are improper and will not be tolerated. Such
harassment involves unwelcome language or actions involving race, religion,
national origin, age, marital status, or disability.
   (D)   Sexual misconduct is a course of conduct that causes bodily injury or
personal injury arising from that bodily injury, from sexual abuse, sexual
molestation, sexual assault, sexual exploitation, and/or physical sexual abuse.
   (E)   Sexual harassment or misconduct, as well as other illegal or improper
harassment of our employees by other employees or by persons who are not
employed by but do business with the village, will not be tolerated.
   (F)   In addition, the village will not allow any retaliation against any
employee who raises a concern about sexual harassment or misconduct as well as
other improper or illegal harassment or participates in an investigation of any
of the aforementioned and tells the truth of the best of his or her knowledge
and belief.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.317 EXAMPLES OF PROHIBITED SEXUALLY RELATED CONDUCT.
   The village considers the following conduct to be examples of conduct, which
violates its prohibition of sexual harassment or misconduct:
   (A)   Unwelcome physical assaults or touching of a sexual nature, including:
      (1)   Rape, sexual battery, molestation, or attempts to commit such acts;
and
      (2)   Intentional physical contact which is sexual in nature such as
touching, pinching, patting, grabbing, rubbing, hugging, or poking another
employee’s body.
   (B)   Unwelcome sexual advances, propositions, and other sexual comments,
such as sexually oriented gestures, noises, remarks, jokes, or comments about a
person’s sexuality or sexual experience directed at or made in the presence of
an employee who has indicated in any way that such conduct in his or her
presence is unwelcome;
   (C)   Job actions related to sexual matters such as:
      (1)   Preferential treatment for submitting to sexual activity, including
soliciting or attempting to solicit an employee to engage in sexual activity
for compensation or reward; and
      (2)   Threatening to or actually making an employee’s job more difficult,
or taking away any benefit or privilege to entice an employee to submit
sexually.
   (D)   Display of sexually related material, such as:
      (1)   Pictures, posters, computer screensavers, calendars, graffiti,
objects, promotional material, reading, or other material of a sexually
suggestive or sexually demeaning nature is not permitted in the workplace; and
      (2)   Reading or otherwise publicizing in the work environment materials
that are sexually revealing, pornographic, or sexually demeaning.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.318 EXAMPLES OF OTHER ILLEGAL BULLYING OR IMPROPER HARASSMENT.
   (A)   Derogatory, critical, or uncomplimentary jokes, comments, displays,
posters, other written materials as well as actions based on age, race,
religion, national origin, marital status, or disability are often unwelcome
and hurtful to others and can be illegal. Such actions have no place in the
work environment at the village, by village employees, the Mayor, Council
members, and/or members of the BPA and will not be tolerated.
   (B)   The above examples are not to be considered a comprehensive list of
prohibited conduct, but set forth examples of the types of prohibited conduct.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.319 BULLYING POLICY.
   (A)   Bullying is another form of harassment that is unacceptable in the
village. It applies to all employees, consultants, volunteers, visitors, and
elected officials. The principles set out in this policy are intended to apply
to any context involving the village. (Refer to §
33.008 for the village’s definition of BULLYING).
   (B)   Bullying may be intentional or unintentional. However, it must be
noted that when an allegation of bullying is made, the intention of the alleged
bully is irrelevant, and will not be given consideration if disciplinary action
is administered. As in sexual harassment, it is the effect of the behavior on
the individual that is important. Bullying is not limited to actions from
employer to employee. Any village employee or official can suffer from
bullying.
   (C)   Bullying may be verbal, nonverbal, physical, nonphysical, and social.
Below are some examples of bullying. However, the village reserves the right to
include other actions if it is deemed necessary:
      (1)   Slandering, ridiculing, gossip, or maligning a person or his or her
family; persistent name calling that is hurtful, insulting, or humiliating;
using a person as the butt of jokes; and abusive and offensive remarks/
nicknames;
      (2)   Pushing, shoving, kicking, poking, tripping, assault, or threat of
physical assault; damage to a person’s work area or property;
      (3)   Nonverbal threatening gestures; glances that can convey threatening
messages;
      (4)   Socially or physically excluding or disregarding a person in work-
related activities;
      (5)   Persistent singling out of one person;
      (6)   Shouting or raising voice at an individual in public or in private;
      (7)   Not allowing the person to speak or express himself or herself
(i.e., ignoring or interrupting);
      (8)   Public humiliation in any form;
      (9)   Constant criticism on matters unrelated or minimally related to the
person’s job performance or description;
      (10)   Public reprimands;
      (11)   Repeatedly accusing someone of errors that cannot be documented;
      (12)   Deliberately interfering with personal belongings; and
      (13)   Manipulating the ability of someone to do his or her work (i.e.,
overloading, under-loading, withholding information, assigning meaningless
tasks, setting deadlines that cannot be met, giving deliberately ambiguous
instructions).
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.320 MAKING COMPLAINTS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT OR MISCONDUCT OR OTHER ILLEGAL
OR IMPROPER HARASSMENT OR RETALIATION.
   (A)   Anyone who has suffered sexual harassment or misconduct or other
illegal or improper harassment or retaliation or who has observed such conduct
should report it to his or her immediate supervisor.
   (B)   All complaints will be investigated expeditiously. Upon completion,
and a determination that a complaint is valid, the village will take
appropriate remedial action, including discipline up to termination of
employment. If the complaint is found to be without merit, no disciplinary
action will be taken against the employee against whom the complaint was made.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.321 BAD FAITH CLAIMS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT OR MISCONDUCT OR OTHER ILLEGAL
OR IMPROPER HARASSMENT.
   Bad faith claims of sexual harassment or misconduct or other illegal or
improper harassment are claims made when the person making the claims knows the
claim is false but makes it anyway. Persons who made bad faith claims under
this section will be subjected to disciplinary action up to and including
termination.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.322 INTERNAL INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE.
   The following procedure for investigating and resolving claims of sexual
harassment or misconduct or other forms of illegal/improper harassment
prohibited by this policy.
   (A)   All employees have been informed as to the policy concerning illegal/
improper harassment or misconduct. All incidents, reports, or complaints of
sexual harassment or misconduct should be filed or reported to the Village
Personnel Committee immediately. All such complaints, once filed, shall be
investigated and handled exclusively by the Village Personnel Committee, or
their designee, in consultation with the Village Solicitor, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this procedure. However, an employee disciplined as a
result of a finding of sexual harassment or misconduct or filing a willful and
intentional bad faith claim of sexual harassment misconduct shall be entitled
to file a grievance in accordance with applicable policy.
   (B)   Because of the extremely sensitive nature of these types of problems
and the potential “spill-over effect” on the job future and personal lives of
all involved, the following procedures are established.
   (C)   When a complaint of illegal/improper harassment is made against an
employee or person doing business with the village, the following occurs.
      (1)   A complaint file will be opened by the Village Personnel Committee
which will be separate from the personnel file of the employee involved. Said
file will be confidential to the extent allowed by state law and will be
available only to the Village Personnel Committee, or their designee, for the
specific case, and:
         (a)   The Village Solicitor;
         (b)   Investigators, if any (until the investigation is completed),
assigned the specific case by the Village Personnel Committee.
      (2)   Investigators assigned to handling the complaint will not discuss
any aspect of the investigation with anyone, except those persons who have
access to the file as provided in division (C)(1) above and then only upon
request or as necessary to complete the investigation.
      (3)   The investigators will be charged with the responsibility of
gathering information relevant to the complaint. The identity of persons
interviewed will remain confidential except to those persons enumerated in
division (C)(1) above unless otherwise directed by the Village Personnel
Committee or required bylaw.
      (4)   Unless otherwise directed by the Village Personnel Committee, the
investigation will be supervised by the Village Solicitor.
      (5)   Upon completion of the investigation the investigators will make a
verbal report to the Village Personnel Committee.
         (a)   A record of the decision of management will be made in the
separate file by the Village Personnel Committee and the parties will be
advised of the decision.
         (b)   If the decision involved discipline of any employee other than
oral reprimand (e.g., written reprimand, suspension, or discharge), a copy of
the actual notice of disciplinary action will be placed in the employee’s
personnel file.
         (c)   If the person against whom the claim was made is exonerated or
no disciplinary action other than oral reprimand is taken, no entry will be
made in the personnel file. In such instance, the complaint investigation shall
clearly state whether there was no merit to the complaint or that it was
insufficiently serious to warrant discipline more severe than oral reprimand.
If any oral reprimand was given, the Village Personnel Committee shall prepare
a memo explaining the oral reprimand. The complaint investigation file will not
be disclosed to anyone other than as provided in division (C)(1) above unless
disclosure is required by law.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS
§ 33.335 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   The process for rating the work performance and work attitude of
employees accurately is important to the efficient operation of the village and
job opportunities for employees.
   (B)   Performance evaluations (PEs) are given to evaluate the employee’s
work attitude, quality, quantity, and performance and to assist the employee
and management in recognizing strengths and weaknesses and to assist in
improving areas identified as weak.
   (C)   PEs will be conducted annually for regular full-time employees and on
other occasions as determined necessary by the Village Personnel Committee and
for other employees when and if the Village Personnel Committee determines such
evaluations are needed.
   (D)   Annual PEs shall be conducted by the Council, Board of Public Affairs,
or Council Committee and shall be forwarded to Personnel Committee for review.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.336 USE.
   In addition to assisting employees and management in achieving and
maintaining acceptable or better job performance, PEs are considered in
determining advancement, disciplinary actions, and other job actions.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.337 REVIEW.
   A regular full-time employee may seek review of his or her PE under §§
33.140 through
33.143, provided the decision of the Village Personnel Committee shall be final
unless the employee alleges a violation of §
33.006 (amendments to the PRR).
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.338 MAINTENANCE OF RECORDS.
   The Clerk’s office will maintain the original copy of completed performance
evaluations in each employee’s personnel file.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
DRUG-FEE WORKPLACE AND ALCOHOL POLICY
§ 33.350 POLICY.
   The village’s drug-free workplace policy is aimed at ensuring zero tolerance
to illegal drugs at all times and its alcohol-free policy to zero tolerance
under circumstances that affect or might affect the safety and wellbeing of
employees, citizens, and others, or the effective operation of village
business. This policy is consistent with all state and federal laws, drug-free
workplace program requirements, the Agency for Health Care Administration
(AHCA), drug-free workplace standards, and the Federal Drug-free Workplace Act.
In addition, all employees required to have a commercial driver’s license (CDL)
under Chapter 49 C.F.R. Part 383 are subject to controlled substance and
alcohol testing rules established by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)
under the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing Act of 1991 (revised February
1994), in accordance with 49 C.F.R. Parts 40, 383, 392.4, and 392.5 regulatory
penalties for infractions are in addition to disciplinary action including
termination of employment.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.351 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Illegal controlled substances. The village prohibits the use,
distribution, possession, manufacture, cultivation, sale or attempt to sell, or
distribute illegal controlled substances at any time whether on or off duty,
whether on or off village property. Illegal controlled substances are defined
by applicable state and federal laws.
   (B)   Alcohol abuse. Employees of the village are prohibited from using or
possessing alcohol while on duty; while on village premises; while driving a
village vehicle, operating a piece of village equipment, or being transported
in village vehicles at any time; reporting to work under the influence of
alcohol; or from otherwise using alcohol in a manner at anytime which adversely
affects the business interests of the village.
   (C)   Note. A sworn employee of the Village Policy Department, or an
employee acting under the direction of such, may have cause in the course of
conducting village business, to acquire and/or manipulate some form of alcohol
or drugs for a duty purpose, and not for other non-job related reasons, and
such shall be done in accordance with the officer’s assigned duties and in
accordance with Police Department policies.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.352 USE OF LEGAL DRUGS.
   The use of legal drugs, that is drugs prescribed by licensed physicians for
a specific medical purpose, is often necessary. However, such drugs can and
often do have a direct impact on the vigilance, judgment, and/or coordination
of the employee and adversely affect the employee’s job performance and the
employee’s ability to work in a safe and efficient manner. This is particularly
true in safety-sensitive assignments involving the operation of motor vehicles
and other moving equipment. Therefore, an employee for whom a licensed
physician or dentist prescribes a controlled substance must advise the
supervisor immediately in order that an evaluation can be made on the impact,
if any, on the safe and efficient operation of the village. Detection of
controlled substance will be presumed to be in violation of this policy unless
the employee had advised the supervisor of its medicinal use in advance.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.353 SUBSTANCES TESTED FOR.
   (A)   With respect to violation of the policy in §
33.351(B), employees are subject to testing for the detection of alcohol while
on duty or while operating or riding in or on a village owned vehicle.
   (B)   Employees will be subject to drug testing for the detection of the
following illegal drugs/drug groups, as well as others that may from time to
time be declared illegal by state or federal law:
      (1)   Amphetamines;
      (2)   Barbiturates;
      (3)   Benzodiazepines;
      (4)   Cannabinoids (marijuana);
      (5)   Cocaine;
      (6)   Methadone;
      (7)   Methaqualone;
      (8)   Opiates (heroin, morphine, codeine);
      (9)   Phencyclidine (pep); and
      (10)   Propoxyphene.
   (C)   Circumstances for testing are subject to applicable law.
      (1)   All job applicants shall be subject to drug testing as a
prerequisite to employment with the village. It is the obligation of the job
applicant to notify the approved testing facility of any controlled substances
prescribed for the job applicant by a physician or dentist.
      (2)   (a)   When an employee is involved at any time directly in an
equipment or vehicular work-related accident, or in any unsafe and/or negligent
maintenance or operation of the village’s equipment or vehicles at any time,
where in the opinion of the Village Personnel Committee, the employee was at
fault or the employee’s conduct contributed to the accident.
         (b)   Testing for illegal controlled substances will result where
there is reasonable suspicion by the village to believe the employee was in
violation of §
33.351(A) above at the time of the incident.
      (3)   When an employee is in a special risk or safety-sensitive position
(all positions which require a CDL license, police officer, and the like of any
rank), and is involved in an accident on the job, he or she will be required to
submit to a drug and/or alcohol test.
      (4)   When reasonable suspicion exists to believe the employee is using
drugs or alcohol in violation of this policy. A reasonable suspicion is a
belief that an employee is using or has used drugs or alcohol in violation of
this policy drawn from specific, objective, and articulable facts and
reasonable inferences drawn from those facts in light of experience. Among
other things, such facts and inferences may be based upon:
         (a)   Observable phenomena while at work, such as direct observation
of drug use or of physical symptoms or manifestation of being under the
influence of a drug or alcohol;
         (b)   Abnormal conduct or erratic behavior while at work or a
significant deterioration in work performance;
         (c)   A report of drug use, provided by a reliable and credible
source;
         (d)   Evidence that an individual has tampered with a drug test during
his or her employment with the village;
         (e)   Information that an employee has caused, contributed to, or been
involved in an accident while at work;
         (f)   Evidence that an employee has used, possessed, manufactured,
cultivated, sold, solicited, or transferred drugs;
         (g)   Frequent absences from work without a satisfactory explanation.
      (5)   The testing is a part of any medical examination required by the
village whether or not that medical examination is required by the ODOT or any
other regulatory entity.
      (6)   Employees and job applicants have the right to consult with the
testing laboratory for technical information regarding prescription and non-
prescription medications. The name, address, and telephone number of the
testing laboratory will be provided to the employee or job applicant upon
request.
      (7)   All test results will be kept confidential and will only be
provided to managerial employees on a need-to-know basis.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.354 REPORTING AND CONVICTION OF ALLEGED CRIMES INCLUDING DRUGS OR ALCOHOL.
   (A)   All employees must report to their supervisor any arrest, indictment,
or conviction of a drug or alcohol related violation or alleged violation of
law not later than the next work day after they become aware of it. Failure to
so report may result in immediate termination.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a crime involving illegal drugs, the employee will
be immediately terminated.
   (C)   Without regard to prosecution or conviction by appropriate
governmental entities, the village may, at its option, conduct its own
independent investigation to determine whether or not there has been a
violation of the village’s drug and/or alcohol policy. If, in the opinion of
the village, it believes a violation has occurred, it will take whatever
disciplinary action it deems appropriate, regardless of the ultimate outcome of
any criminal case that may be brought against the employee.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.355 DISCIPLINE FOR VIOLATION OF POLICY.
   Employees who violate this policy or who are directed to take a physical
examination, blood, breathalyzer, urinalysis, or other test allowed by law, and
refuse or fail to do so when and as directed; or who, after having taken such
examination and/or test are determined to have utilized illegal controlled
substance at any time or to have violated the village’s alcohol abuse policy,
shall be subject to immediate termination; provided, however, if the presence
of an illegal controlled substance is established as a result of the test, the
employee or job applicant may, within five working days of receipt of written
notification of a positive result, request an opportunity to explain the result
to the Village Personnel Committee.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.356 EMPLOYEE INJURED ON THE JOB.
   Any employee injured on the job that refuses to submit to a drug test, or
has a positive confirmation test, in addition to other provision of the policy,
may forfeit his or her eligibility for all workers’ compensation medical and
indemnity benefits depending on applicable law.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.357 REPORTING VIOLATION OF THE POLICY.
   (A)   Reporting violations. It is the obligation of every employee of the
village to report violations of the village’s drug and alcohol abuse policies.
Failure to report may subject employees to discipline up to and including
discharge.
   (B)   Good faith claims. Any employee who, in good faith, based upon
reasonable suspicion or observation, reports an alleged violation of these
policies, or any supervisory or managerial employee who investigates or takes
action in good faith based on reasonable suspicion or observation shall not be
harassed, retaliated against, or discriminated against in any manner for making
reports, participating in the investigation, or because of any reasonable
action he or she takes as a result of the investigation.
   (C)   Bad faith claims. Any employee who knowingly files a false report of a
violation of the policies set forth herein shall be subject to immediate
termination.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.358 COORDINATION WITH ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES.
   Sections
33.335 through
33.338 is subject to applicable law and all action taken by members of
management here under must be coordinated through the Village Personnel
Committee and Clerk’s office to ensure compliance with all applicable laws.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
MISCELLANEOUS
§ 33.370 SMOKING.
   (A)   The purpose of this policy is to protect the public health and
employees by creating areas in public places and at public meetings that are
reasonably free from tobacco smoke, and to comply with the regulations and laws
of the state and problems created by the use of other tobacco products,
cigarettes, e-cigs, and vaping in the workplace.
   (B)   No person may smoke or use any tobacco product, cigarettes, e-cigs,
and vaping in any village building, facility, or vehicle. This includes, but is
not limited to, private offices, hallways, restrooms, conference rooms, and
break rooms, even with only one occupant.
   (C)   Smoking is permitted outdoors except for the following conditions:
      (1)   Whenever a safety hazard exists;
      (2)   In any area where smoking is specifically prohibited by federal,
state, county, or village ordinance; and
      (3)   In any area posted “no smoking”.
   (D)   The Village Personnel Committee shall be responsible for ensuring
village-wide implementation of this policy.
   (E)   Violation of this policy shall subject the employee to disciplinary
action up to and including termination.
   (F)   Citizens, clients, contractors, and visitors to village facilities
shall be expected to comply with this policy. Violators shall be requested to
extinguish their smoking material or leave the building/facility area if they
refuse to do so.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Revised 1-1-2019;
Ord. 1630, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 33.371 EMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The village is registered with the State Bureau of Unemployment
Compensation.
   (B)   Terminated employees who file a claim and are determined qualified
under the state unemployment compensation law may be eligible to receive
unemployment compensation benefits. Employees who are terminated for violation
of the village’s drug free workplace policy may not be entitled to unemployment
compensation under state law.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.372 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   The village will pay regular full-time employees on leave covered by the
workers’ compensation law for the first 12 months at their regular hourly rate
for their regular straight time schedule, provided they sign over to the
village checks for lost wages received from the workers’ comp insurance
carrier. After the first 12 months, if the employee remains on workers’
compensation, the employee may use accumulated but unused vacation and sick
leave to supplement workers’ compensation as provided in §§
33.189 and
33.207.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.373 DESKS, LOCKERS, OTHER CITY PROPERTY/EQUIPMENT, PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Employees may request a locker, if available.
   (B)   All personal equipment, clothing, property, and belongings, including,
but not limited to, car trunks and lunch bags, brought onto the village
property or placed in village property, as well as lockers, desks, file
cabinets, and other village equipment used by employees, are subject to
inspection by management at any time if management has any reason to suspect
they contain or may contain anything the possession of which would violate a
village or department ordinance, rule, procedure, or policy, or any federal,
state, or local law or regulation.
   (C)   In the event the employee is unavailable or it is deemed necessary to
access any item described in division (B) above without the employee’s
presence, the Village Personnel Committee shall make the determination.
   (D)   The village is not responsible for the personal property of employees
which they bring onto village property.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.374 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Village Personnel Committee and Clerk’s office is responsible for
establishing and maintaining comprehensive central personnel records of all
village employees.
   (A)   All records and material relating to the administration of the village
personnel management system shall be considered confidential to the extent
allowed by law and the property of the village.
   (B)   Employees should keep their personnel records current. This means
immediately notifying the Clerk’s office or Personnel Committee of any changes;
such as change of address (even if temporary), change of telephone number,
change of beneficiary, number of dependents, divorce, marriage, or any status
change not previously reported, from that which was originally given at the
time of employment. This is the responsibility of the employee and failure to
comply may result in loss of employee benefits.
   (C)   The Clerk’s office should be informed of any special training courses
completed by an employee. Copies of diplomas or certificates shall be forwarded
to the Clerk’s office to become a permanent part of the employee’s personnel
file.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.375 EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT.
   It is the responsibility of the Village Personnel Committee in conjunction
with Village Council and/or to foster and promote in-service training of
employees. The purpose of this training is to improve the level of service
rendered to the public, the quality of personnel, and to assist employees in
preparing themselves for advancement in village service. The Village Personnel
Committee in cooperation with the Clerk’s office will establish standards for
training programs, assure that training is carried out as approved, and prepare
certificates or other forms of recognition to persons who satisfactorily
complete approved course and programs. The Clerk’s office will provide
assistance to the Personnel Committee in developing and conducting training to
meet specific needs of their departments and to assure that employee,
supervisory, and management training are available to all departments.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.376 DEDUCTIONS.
   Federal withholding, social security, and pensions are deducted from
paychecks in accordance with law and village ordinance. Voluntary deductions
authorized by the Personnel Committee are made only upon written authorization
of the employee and approval by Personnel Committee and the Village Council.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.377 TAKE-HOME VEHICLES.
   (A)   Some village employees have village vehicles at their disposal so they
may carry out their duties properly. Because village vehicles are typically
marked, the way they are operated has a direct impact on the public image of
the village. Employees operation of village vehicles will adhere to the
following rules.
      (1)   Operator will possess a valid state driver’s license.
      (2)   All vehicular safety laws will be observed.
      (3)   Safety belts will be used at all times when the vehicle is in
operation.
      (4)   In the event that a village vehicle is involved in an accident, the
employee will notify the appropriate law enforcement agency and the employee’s
immediate supervisor.
      (5)   Village vehicles will be used for official business only; they will
not be used for pleasure or personal business unless otherwise approved by the
Personnel Committee.
      (6)   Any employee who abuses a village vehicle in any manner will be
subject to disciplinary action including possible payment for the deductible
portion of damages to the vehicle.
   (B)   Overnight use of a non-assigned village vehicle will require approval
of the Personnel Committee before a vehicle is driven home. Such use normally
will be authorized only under the following conditions:
      (1)   The employee requires use of a vehicle overnight or whose
responsibilities involve an evening or weekend public appearance (i.e.,
police);
      (2)   The employee holds a position with duties and responsibilities
involving on-call or standby status;
      (3)   The employee is traveling on village business; and
      (4)   Operator will possess a valid state driver’s license.
   (C)   In addition to the rules for operating a village vehicle, employees
who are assigned overnight use of village vehicles will adhere to the following
rules.
      (1)   Under no circumstances will the vehicle be used for transporting
members of the employee’s family or for anything pertaining to personal
business or pleasure unless otherwise approved by the Personnel Committee.
      (2)   The employee will be responsible for keeping the vehicle in clean
condition.
   (D)   Vehicle assignments may change from time to time, and each vehicle
will be available for other purposes when not being used by the employee to
whom it is normally assigned.
   (E)   All vehicles, which are not to be driven home by employees, will
remain parked overnight in the building parking lot where the vehicle is
assigned.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.378 SAFETY.
   (A)   The Village Council and Board of Public Affairs are to take all
reasonable steps to ensure that each village employee works in an environment
free from hazards and dangerous conditions which he or she observes or which,
with the exercise of reasonable diligence, he or she should have observed. He
or she is also responsible to enforce all village, departmental, state, local,
and federal laws relating to safety.
   (B)   All employees are required to abide by all applicable village,
departmental, state, local, and federal safety laws and regulations applicable
to their area of responsibility. OSHA training is mandatory for all employees
   (C)   All employees should report to the appropriate Council Committee or
Board of Public Affairs any condition, equipment, or practice they consider to
be unsafe.
   (D)   Employees who are required to wear safety equipment and clothing
provided by the village shall do so. Failure to do so will justify immediate
termination.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.379 TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENT POLICY.
   The village will only provide for expenses incurred by village employees on
official village business. Employees who travel on behalf of the village are
expected to use good judgment and to make related expenditures in a prudent
manner. Prior to incurring any expenses for business, training, and travel, a
travel purchase order must be completed and approved by the Board of Public
Affairs and/or Village Council.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.380 MODE OF TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   Employees using their personal vehicle will be reimbursed on a per
mile basis. The village will utilize the IRS mileage reimbursement rate. The
point of departure, in regard to mileage charges, is the Village Hall or the
individual’s home, whichever is less.
   (B)   Carpooling is strongly encouraged.
   (C)   When a village vehicle is used for authorized travel and incurs
expenditures for gas, oil, and/or emergency repairs, receipts must be submitted
in order to receive reimbursement.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.381 MEALS.
   The village will reimburse at the rates below expenses for meals on
previously approved travel when submitted with an itemized receipt showing food
and gratuity.
   (A)   Morning and noon only, or evening only (one-half day): $25 plus 15%
gratuity.
   (B)   Full day: $40 plus 15% gratuity.
   (C)   The village will not reimburse meals that are already provided as part
of registration fees and will not reimburse for any meals purchased for non-
employees, i.e., spouse.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.382 LODGING.
   The village will reimburse for lodging at a single room rate; the employee
must pay any additional lodging costs above the single occupancy rate.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.383 MISCELLANEOUS EXPENSES.
   Registration fees for seminars, conferences, and training are reimbursable
or may be billed directly to the village. Reimbursement shall be made for all
other related expenses (i.e., parking, taxi, business phone calls, tolls,
faxing) and other necessary expenses as may be approved. An itemized receipt
shall accompany all approved expenses in order to receive reimbursement.
Expenses attributable to non-employees (food, lodging, transportation, and the
like) must be paid by the employee or other party.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.384 TYPICAL EXPENSES NOT REIMBURSABLE.
   Typical expenses not reimbursable include laundry and dry cleaning, cosmetic
needs, personal phone calls, entertainment, entertainment commuting expenses,
alcoholic beverages, private vehicle repair, tobacco products, and expenses by
non-village employees.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.385 COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT USAGE POLICY.
   The village provides communication equipment for those employees with a
demonstrated work-related need for village issued communication equipment.
Communication equipment includes cellular phones, radios, pagers, and the like.
For cellular phones, refer to §
33.389.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.386 USER RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Employees issued communication equipment shall follow the rules below:
      (1)   Shall not damage the communication equipment through neglect,
misuse, carelessness, or failure to follow instructions;
      (2)   Immediately report the loss or damage of any communication
equipment;
      (3)   Return all communication equipment upon separation of employment;
      (4)   Limit all cellular calls to no more than ten minutes and provide
written justification for calls exceeding this limit;
      (5)   Only use communication equipment in a parked vehicle or in vehicles
with hands free communication equipment. Employees shall not dial the cellular
phone or take notes while driving. Exceptions will be made for those emergency
personnel performing safety related functions, i.e., police, fire, and rescue;
      (6)   Have the equipment charged for use and operational during scheduled
work hours; and
      (7)   With the exception of approved leave, those employees issued
communication equipment for on-call purposes shall be reachable by the
equipment while on an “on-call” status.
   (B)   Employees may be held accountable for the following:
      (1)   Identify and reimburse the village for any costs associated with
personal use;
      (2)   Lost, stolen, or damaged equipment. Employees are not responsible
for charges to replace or repair equipment damaged while performing job-related
duties during working hours;
      (3)   Excess minutes allowed under the cellular phone plan;
      (4)   Directory assistance, roaming charges, and long distance charges
that are not business related;
      (5)   Web usage and download fees; and
      (6)   Any other charges above and beyond the regular monthly service
charge established by the equipment contract.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.387 VILLAGE AUDITING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The village reserves the right to audit a user’s account at any time.
   (B)   Excessive and/or personal use not reimbursed by the employee within 30
days of the audit will result in appropriate disciplinary action.
   (C)   When an employee or position no longer has a need for communication
equipment, the equipment shall be returned to the village.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.388 VILLAGE CREDIT CARD POLICY.
   The village purchases consumable supplies (i.e., paper products, computer
supplies, hardware, and the like) from time to time. Many vendors issue credit
cards for said purchases. It is the policy of the village that purchases be
limited to $250 without prior approval of the Board of Public Affairs, Village
Council, or Village Fiscal Officer. Employees are prohibited from using village
credit cards for personal purchase.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.389 VILLAGE CELL PHONE POLICY.
   (A)   Departments seeking approval for a smart phone will need to
demonstrate the business need for the upgrade.
   (B)   Users who are authorized will be given the following two options to
choose from.
      (1)   Reimbursement plan.
         (a)   Use your personal cell phone for business purpose and receive a
$35 per month stipend to offset costs incurred by village business use.
         (b)   Those choosing this option are agreeing to the following.
            1.   Due to the fact that village business will be conducted using
your phone, your phone will contain public records. You agree to uphold records
retention and retrieval laws up to and including that your phone can be taken
and searched in its entirety during some investigational proceedings.
            2.   Should your phone be lost, stolen, broken, or otherwise
damaged, it is your responsibility to replace it as soon as possible and within
three weeks of the damage. Users must notify the Fiscal Officer of a lost,
stolen, or broken device so emergency numbers can be forwarded.
            3.   Your phone number will be shared with all applicable parties
as necessary for emergency contact purposes.
            4.   The stipend will be paid quarterly on the first payroll period
of the quarter. The stipend is taxable income and will be included on W-2 wages
subject to income tax reporting.
      (2)   Village issued phones. Be supplied a village phone number and phone
line.
         (a)   This phone would be property of the village. This phone number
and device will remain village equipment even if someone leaves his or her
position.
         (b)   Due to the fact village business will be conducted using this
phone, this phone will contain public records. You agree to uphold records
retention and retrieval laws up to and including that your phone can be taken
and searched in its entirety during some investigational proceedings.
         (c)   Users must notify the Fiscal Officer of a lost, stolen, or
broken device so emergency numbers can be forwarded. The Fiscal Officer will
order a new device as soon as possible.
   (C)   All phones used for village purposes should be password protected. The
login information for the apps used for village work should not be shared with
anyone outside village government. These passwords will be changed by the
Fiscal Officer each time an employee leaves a position.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.390 WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Work orders are to be submitted to the office, who will copy them and
give them to the Mayor for his or her preview. File the original order until it
is complete or request is withdrawn.
   (B)   The Mayor is supposed to filter out duplicate work orders and/or
orders that lack needed/specific information for employees to effectively
accomplish his or her task. This may include unreasonable due dates.
   (C)   Responsibilities surrounding work orders include the following.
      (1)   Employees are responsible for:
         (a)   Accomplishing the task;
         (b)   Meeting the clue date; and
         (c)   Communicating directly with the official who submitted the work
order.
      (2)   Elected officials are responsible for:
         (a)   Being specific and thorough when describing the work needed;
         (b)   Setting reasonable due dates; and
         (c)   Do not contact employees about a specific work order until after
the due date, unless it is to cancel the order.
   (D)   Requester should be contacted on completion of the order and office
should keep a final copy of completed work order with comments (if any) added
by the employee on file for public record.
   (E)   See office staff for blank work order forms.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.391 ORGANIZATION CHART.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/3dc90bd67f3c53664819ae77a5d996cb8881b157/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1492.gif]
 
   Disclaimer: This is not a chain of command but rather defines traditional
managed workflow within the village. This is subject to change at the Village
Council’s digression.
(Ord. 1447, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 1473, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. passed 1-1-
2019)
§ 33.392 DIRECT DEPOSIT OF PAYROLL.
   (A)   These administrative instructions set forth in village policy
regarding requiring direct deposit of payroll for all persons hired for periods
longer than one month.
   (B)   All employees must receive their paychecks by direct deposit unless a
written request for accommodation of religious beliefs is made to the Finance
Committee.
(Ord. 1630, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 33.393 TIME CLOCK POLICY.
   (A)   Unless an employee is in a call-out/emergency situation, they will
clock in at their base of operation or when they pick up village vehicle.
   (B)   Clocking in will round to the closest quarter hour.
   (C)   Employees will clock out when they begin their half-hour unpaid lunch
break and clock back in when they return to work. Employees are not required to
take phone calls during the lunch break.
   (D)   Employees will clock out when they leave the office or return their
vehicle to the base of operation and leave for the day.
(Ord. 1668, passed 7-2-2024)
§ 33.394 PHONE CALLS WHILE OFF THE CLOCK/ON VACATION.
   (A)   To minimize calls and interruptions to employee's personal time,
employee phone numbers should not be given out except to the Sheriff, Police
Chief, Mayor, village employees and village officials.
   (B)   An after-hours emergency phone call from a village official lasting 15
minutes or longer will be compensated for with a one hour call-out. An alarm
check or call of less than 15 minutes that does not result in an employee
leaving their home will not be compensated. Refer to §
33.172(D).
   (C)   Employees are not required to answer calls after hours or on lunch
break from anyone except the officials listed and will not be compensated for
such calls. Employees should add a message to their phones for residents to
call the Police Department or Sheriff's Department with any problems.
   (D)   In an attempt to find a system that does not infringe on employee
family time, employees are not expected to take phone calls from anyone other
than those listed above while on vacation.
      (1)   In an emergency, a call from a village employee or official may be
necessary and will be compensated. All attempts will be made to have on the
clock employees cover for vacationing employees. All follow-up, such as
monitoring, should be done by on-the-clock employees.
   (E)   If an employee has been issued a village cellular phone, they must
carry and use that cellular phone.
(Ord. 1668, passed 7-2-2024)
POLICY ON WEAPONS IN THE WORKPLACE
§ 33.400 OBJECTIVE.
   To create a safe working environment for village employees and customers by
prohibiting the possession and/or use of weapons in a workplace. Employees of
the village are its most valuable resource and for that reason, their health
and safety is of paramount concern. The village will not tolerate any weapon
possession or use by nonlaw enforcement personnel.
(Ord. 1630, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 33.401 SCOPE.
   Persons subject to the terms of this policy are as follows:
   (A)   All employees of the village.
   (B)   All employee of temporary employment agencies or employee leasing
services assigned to perform work for or on behalf of the village.
   (C)   All employees of contractors providing services on behalf of the
village.
   (D)   All applicants for employment with the village.
   (E)   All other persons, including visitors, vendors, subcontractors,
customers, etc.
   (F)   This policy applies to all persons, except law enforcement personnel
on official business, regardless of whether the person is licensed to carry a
weapon or not.
(Ord. 1630, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 33.402 POLICY.
   (A)   This policy prohibits possession and/or use of prohibited weapons at
any time during working hours, on village property, in any facility maintained/
serviced by the village, and/or village supplied vehicles, even though such
vehicles are not on village property.
   (B)   Prohibited weapons include any form of weapon and any form of
explosive restricted under local, state, or federal regulations. This includes
all firearms, illegal knives, or other weapons restricted by the law. Questions
about whether an item is covered by this policy should be referred to the
Personnel Committee. The person will be held responsible for making sure
beforehand that any potentially covered item they possess is not prohibited by
this policy.
   (C)   Village property covered by this policy includes, without limitation,
all jobsites, any facility maintained/services by the village, and all village
owned or leased buildings. Further, village property covered by this policy
includes all surrounding areas such as sidewalks, walkways, driveways, and
parking lots (whether under the village's ownership or control). Village
vehicles are always covered by this policy regardless of whether they are on
village property at the time.
   (D)   The village has no facilities for storing or retaining firearms or
weapons. Persons licensed to carry prohibited weapons must make arrangements to
store such weapons off of village property.
(Ord. 1630, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 33.403 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following are prohibited:
   (A)   Use or possession of weapons on village property, on village business,
in village vehicles, in any vehicle used for village business, during working
hours and/or at any village sponsored or sanctioned function.
   (B)   Use or possession of weapons while performing any task on the
village's behalf.
   (C)   Failing or refusing to report a known violation of this policy.
   (D)   Failing or refusing to cooperate with any investigation relating to a
possible violation of this policy.
(Ord. 1630, passed 12-20-2022)
§ 33.404 CONSEQUENCES FOR VIOLATION OF THIS POLICY.
   (A)   Violation of the Village's Weapon Policy may result in severe
disciplinary action, including discharge, at the village's sole discretion,
and;
   (B)   Using or possessing a weapon on village property in violation of this
policy will be considered an act of criminal trespass and will be grounds for
immediate removal from village property and may also result in criminal
prosecution.
   (C)   Any person becoming aware of anyone violating this policy should take
no action other than to immediately report it to their supervisor and/or to the
Personnel Committee.
(Ord. 1630, passed 12-20-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWER
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Sanitary sewer tap charge
   
50.02   Monthly charge
   
50.03   Extensions outside village
   
50.04   Contiguous land owned
   
50.05   Noncontiguous land
Cross-Connection Controls
   
50.20   Installation of backflow prevention device
   
50.21   Approval of connection required
   
50.22   Surveys and investigations
   
50.23   Right to inspect the piping system
   
50.24   Purpose, application, and policy
   
50.25   Definitions
   
50.26   Water system
   
50.27   Cross-connections prohibited
   
50.28   Survey and investigations
   
50.29   Where protection is required
   
50.30   Type of protection required
   
50.31   Backflow prevention devices
   
50.32   Installation
   
50.33   Inspection and maintenance
   
50.34   Booster pumps
   
50.35   Violations
   
50.36   Authority of Board of Public Affairs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 SANITARY SEWER TAP CHARGE.
   (A)   There shall be a sanitary sewer tap charge of $700 each that shall
apply to all new sewer taps for properties that do not have an existing water
tap and do not pay sewer charges upon the effective date of this subchapter,
excluding those properties that shall be required to tap the 1998 sewer
project, which shall pay no sewer tap-in charge, and excluding all properties
in the village with an existing water tap and paying sewer charges at the time
of effective date of this section, which shall also pay no charge for a sewer
tap.
   (B)   There shall be a sewer system charge of $2,660 for each new tap to the
municipal sewer system for those properties not having an existing tap to the
municipal sewer at the time of the effective date of this section based upon a
60-foot building lot. For each additional 60 feet of frontage, there shall be
an additional system charge. Said charge shall be in addition to the $700 tap-
in fee as described in division (A) above. The system charge as described in
this division (B) shall increase by $80 each year upon the anniversary date of
the effective date of this section. All of said charges shall be in addition to
a charge for the actual cost of extending the municipal sewer across the entire
frontage of the proposed property to be served.
(Ord. 1197, passed 12-5-2000)
§ 50.02 MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   Effective February 1, 2022, a monthly charge of $20.25 per water meter
customer of the village system for up to the first 1,000 gallons of water used,
and an additional monthly charge of $5.70 for each water meter customer is
hereby established for each additional 1,000 gallons of water used each month,
for the purposes of maintaining, operating, improving, and repairing the
municipal sewer system.
   (B)   To ensure future operations and prevent lagging behind in revenues,
the village hereby institutes an automatic annual rate increase beginning
January 1, 2023 and each January 1 thereafter. This automatic rate increase
shall be a fixed amount of $1.00 on the base rate unless the village approves a
motion to adjust this figure not less than 90 days prior to the date of the
automatic increase. This provision does not preclude any other future rate
adjustments as deemed necessary by the Village Council.
(Ord. 1474, passed 12-7-2010; Ord. 1525, passed 9-2-2014; Ord. 1613, passed 2-
1-2022)
§ 50.03 EXTENSIONS OUTSIDE VILLAGE.
   No electric, water, or sewer service shall be extended to any users outside
the corporate limits of the village, except in such cases where the village has
previously contracted to extend such services or except under the conditions
hereafter set forth.
(Ord. 1160, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 50.04 CONTIGUOUS LAND OWNED.
   If the land to which the utility service is to be extended is contiguous to
any part of the village, the owner must petition for annexation to the village
and continue to exert all efforts to obtain annexation until such annexation is
complete before the property is eligible for village electric, water, or sewer
service. In this case, village utility service will not be extended until the
annexation has been granted or until the annexation has been denied by the
County Commissioners. If the owner has petitioned and the petition has been
denied by the Commissioners before receiving utility service, the owner must
enter into an agreement with the village that he or she will continue to exert
all efforts to obtain annexation of his or her property, and further agree that
if the owner sells his or her property or any part of it, that he or she will
require a similar agreement from the purchaser and will place a covenant in the
deed requiring the purchaser to exert all efforts for annexation of such
property.
(Ord. 1160, passed 6-1-1999)
§ 50.05 NONCONTIGUOUS LAND.
   If the land where electric, water, or sewer service is to be extended is not
contiguous with the village limits before receiving service, the owner must
enter into an agreement with the village to exert all efforts to obtain
annexation of his or her property, including the signing of a petition for
annexation, when it is legally possible to do so, and further agree, if the
owner sells his or her property or any part of it, that he or she will require
a similar agreement from the purchaser and will place a covenant in the deed
requiring the purchaser to exert all efforts for annexation of such property.
(Ord. 1160, passed 6-1-1999)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROLS
§ 50.20 INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
   If, in the judgment of the Board of Public Affairs, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water system, the
Board of Public Affairs will give notice to the water consumer to install such
an approved device immediately. The water consumer shall, at his or her own
expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner approved
by the Board of Public Affairs and shall have inspection and tests made of such
approved devices as required by the Board of Public Affairs.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.21 APPROVAL OF CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be established
or maintain or permit to be maintained by any connection whereby a private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply
of said village may enter the supply of said municipality, unless such private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply shall have been approved by the village’s Board of Public Affairs,
and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§  50.22 SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Water or authorized
representative to cause surveys and investigations to be made of industrial and
other properties served by the public water supply where actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated as often as the
Superintendent of Water shall deem necessary.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.23 RIGHT TO INSPECT THE PIPING SYSTEM.
   The Village Superintendent of Water, or his or her duly authorized
representative, shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distributing
system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems thereof. On demand, the owner, lessees, or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the Superintendent of Water any information which he or
she may request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the Superintendent of Water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.24 PURPOSE, APPLICATION, AND POLICY.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these rules and regulations is to:
      (1)   Protect the public potable water supply from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the consumer’s water system contaminants or
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
potable water system;
      (2)   Promote the elimination or control of existing cross-connections,
actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable water system and
non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures, and sources or system containing
process fluids; and
      (3)   Provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will systemically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of the public and consumer’s potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. These rules and regulations shall apply to all premises
served by the public potable water systems of the village.
   (C)   Policy. The Superintendent of Water shall be responsible for
protection of the public potable water system from contamination due to
backflow of contaminants through the water service connection. If, in the
judgment of the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, a contaminated source is found to exist, he or she shall give
notice to the consumer to install such approved backflow prevention device at
each service connection to his or her premises. The customer shall immediately
install such approved device or devices at his or her own expense, and failure,
refusal, or inability on the part of the consumer to install such device or
devices immediately shall constitute grounds for discontinuing water service to
the premises until such device or devices have been installed.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GAP SEPARATION. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supply water to a
tank, plumbing fixture, or other device and flood level rim of the receptacle.
   APPROVED. A backflow prevention device or method has been accepted by the
water purveyor and the Director as suitable for the proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water system on or available to the premises
other than the public water system and includes the water supplied by the
system. These auxiliary waters may include water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams; process fluids; or used water. They may be polluted or
contaminated, or objectionable, or constitute a water source or system over
which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquid mixtures or substances into the
distributing pipes of a potable water supply from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system.
   CONSUMER. The owner or person in control of any premises supplied by or in
any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the consumer’s
premises, supplied by, or in any manner connected to, a public water system. A
household plumbing system is considered to be a CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by sewage or
process fluids or waste to a degree which could create an actual hazard to the
public health through poisoning or through spread of disease by exposure.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any arrangement whereby backflow can occur.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. A term derived from an evaluation of the potential risk to
health and the adverse effect upon the potable water system.
   DIRECTOR. The director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of two single,
independently acting check valves located at each end of the assembly and
suitable connection for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation that creates, or may create, a danger to the health and well being of
users. The word SEVERE, as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means a hazard to the
health of the user that could reasonably be expected to result in significant
morbidity or death.
   INTERCHANGEABLE CONNECTION. An arrangement or device that will allow
alternate but not simultaneous use of two sources of water.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use.
   PERSON. The state, any political subdivision, public or private corporation,
individual, partnership, or other legal entity.
   POLLUTION. The presence in water of any foreign substance that lends to
degrade its quality so as to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness or
quality of the water to a degree which does not create an actual hazard to the
public health, but which does adversely and unreasonably affect such waters for
domestic use.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which is satisfactory for drinking, culinary, and
domestic purposes and meets the requirements of the Department of Health.
   PROCESS FLUIDS. Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically,
or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration, such as would
constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced into the
public or a potable consumer’s water system. This includes, but is not limited
to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated waters;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used water originating from the public water system which may have
deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes, streams, or
irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; and
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for fire-fighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Any publicly or privately owned potable water system
subject to O.A.C. § 6109.01(A).
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves. During normal flow and at the cessation of normal flow, the pressure
between these two checks shall be less than the supply pressure. In case of
leakage of either check valve, the differential relief valve, by discharging to
the atmosphere, shall operate to maintain the pressure between the check valves
at less than the supply pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shut-
off valves located at each end of the device, and each device shall be fitted
with properly located test cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The terminal end of a service line from the public water
system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service, then the service
connection means the downstream end of the meter.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition posing an actual or potential threat to damage to
the physical properties of the public water system or a potable consumer’s
water system.
   POLLUTIONAL HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable
or degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water system
or a potable consumer’s water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public water
system to a consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service
connection and is no longer under the control of the water purveyor.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or operator of a public water system.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.26 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
public potable water system and the consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public potable water system shall consist of the source of
facilities and the distribution system, and shall include all those facilities
of the potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of Water up
to the point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public
distribution system.
   (D)   The public distribution system shall include the network of conduits
used for delivery of water from the source to the consumer’s water system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include those parts of the
facilities beyond the service connection which are utilized in conveying water
from the public distribution system to points of use.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.27 CROSS-CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No water service shall be installed or maintained to any premises
where actual or potential cross-connections to the public potable or consumer’s
water system may exist unless such actual or potential cross-connections are
abated or controlled to the satisfaction of the Board of Public Affairs.
   (B)   No connection shall be installed or maintained whereby an auxiliary
water supply may enter a public potable or consumer’s water system unless such
auxiliary water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Board of Public Affairs and by the Director of
the Environmental Protection Agency as required by R.C. § 6109.13.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.28 SURVEY AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   The consumer’s premises shall be open at all reasonable times to the
Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized representative, for the
conduction of surveys and investigations of water use practices within the
consumer’s premises to determine whether there are actual or potential cross-
connections to the consumer’s water system through which contaminants or
pollutants could backflow into the public potable water system.
   (B)   On request by the Superintendent of Water, or his or her authorized
representative, the consumer shall furnish information on water use practices
within his or her premises.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the water consumer to conduct
periodic surveys of water use practices on his or her premises to determine
whether there are actual or potential cross-connections to his or her water
system through which contaminants or pollutants could backflow into his or her
or the public potable water system.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.29 WHERE PROTECTION IS REQUIRED.
   (A)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where, in the
judgment of the Board of Public Affairs or the Director, actual or potential
hazards to the public potable water system exist.
   (B)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving premises where the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the Superintendent of Water and
the source is approved by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency;
      (2)   Premises on which any substance is handled in such a fashion as to
create an actual or potential hazard to the public potable water system. This
shall include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or
waters originating from the public potable water system which are not longer
under the sanitary control of the Board of Public Affairs;
      (3)   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the Board of Public Affairs, are not correctable or intricate plumbing
arrangements which make it impractical to determine whether or not cross-
connections exist;
      (4)   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross-connection survey;
      (5)   Premises having a repeated history of cross-connections being
established or re-established; and
      (6)   Others specified by the Board of Public Affairs or the Director.
   (C)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a consumer’s water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities unless the Board of Public Affairs or the
Director determines that no actual or potential hazard to the public potable
water system exists:
      (1)   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities;
      (4)   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping station, or storm water
pumping stations;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical plants;
      (7)   Metal plating industries;
      (8)   Petroleum processing or storage plants;
      (9)   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors;
      (10)   Car wash; and
      (11)   Other specified by the Superintendent of Water or the Director.
   (D)   An approved backflow prevention device shall be installed at any point
of connection between the public potable or consumer’s water system and an
auxiliary water supply, unless such auxiliary supply is accepted as an
additional source by the Board of Public Affairs and the source is approved by
the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.30 TYPE OF PROTECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   The type of protection required under §
50.29 shall depend on the degree of hazard which exists as follows.
      (1)   An approved air gap separation shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with substances that could cause a
severe health hazard.
      (2)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the public
potable water system may be contaminated with a substance that could cause a
system or health hazard.
      (3)   An approved air gap separation or an approved reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device or an approved double check valve assembly
shall be installed where the public potable water system may be polluted with
substances that could cause a pollutional hazard not dangerous to health.
   (B)   The type of protection required under §
50.29 shall be an approved air gap separation or an approved interchangeable
connection.
   (C)   Where an auxiliary water supply is used as a secondary source of water
for a fire protection system, the provisions of division (B) above for an
approved air gap separation or an approved interchangeable connection may not
be required providing the following:
      (1)   At premises where the auxiliary water supply may be contaminated
with substances that could cause a system or health hazard, the public or
consumer’s potable water system shall be protected against backflow by
installation of an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
device;
      (2)   At all other premises, the public or consumer’s potable water
system shall be protected against backflow by installation of either an
approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention device or an approved
double check valve assembly.
      (3)   The public or consumer’s potable water system shall be the primary
source of water for the fire protection system.
      (4)   The fire protection system shall be normally filled with water from
the public or consumer’s potable water system.
      (5)   The water in the fire protection system shall be used for fire
protection only with no regular use of water from the fire protection system
downstream from the approved backflow prevention device.
      (6)   The water in the fire protection system shall contain no additives.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.31 BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Any backflow prevention device required by these rules and regulations
shall be of a model or construction approved by the Board of Public Affairs and
Director and shall comply with the following:
      (1)   An air gap separation to be approved shall be at least twice the
diameter of the supply pipe, but in no case less than one inch;
      (2)   A double check valve assembly or a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention device shall be approved by the Board of Public Affairs,
and shall appear on the current “list of approved backflow prevention devices”
of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency; and
      (3)   An interchangeable connection to be approved shall be either a
swing type connector or a four-way valve of the lubricated plug type that
operates through a mechanism which unseats the plug, turns it 90 degrees, and
reseats the plug. Four-way valves shall not be used as stop valves but must
have separate stop valves on each pipe connected to the valve. The tell-tale
port on the four-way valve shall have no piping connected, and the threads or
flange on this port shall be destroyed so that a connection cannot be made.
   (B)   Existing backflow prevention devices approved by the Board of Public
Affairs or the state’s Environmental Protection Agency at the time of
installation and properly maintained shall, except for inspection and
maintenance requirements, be excluded from the requirement of division (A) of
this section, providing the Superintendent of Water is assured that they will
satisfactorily protect the public potable water system. Whenever the existing
device is moved from the present location or requires more than minimum
maintenance, or when the Superintendent of Water finds that the maintenance of
the device constitutes hazard to health, the device shall be replaced by a
backflow prevention device meeting the requirements of these regulations.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.32 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices required by these rules and regulations
shall be installed at a location and in a manner approved by the Superintendent
of Water and shall be installed by and at the expense of the water consumer. In
addition, any backflow prevention device required by §
50.29(B) and (C) of these regulations shall be installed at a location and in a
manner approved by the state’s Environmental Protection Agency as required by
R.C. § 6109.13.
   (B)   Backflow prevention devices installed on the service line to a
consumer’s water system shall be located on the consumer’s side of the water
meter as close to the meter as is reasonably practical, and prior to any other
connection.
   (C)   Pits or vaults shall be of water-tight construction, be so located and
constructed as to prevent flooding, and shall be maintained free from standing
water by means of either a sump and pump or suitable drain. Such sump pump or
drain shall not connect to a sanitary sewer nor permit flooding of the pit or
vault by reverse flow from its point of discharge. An access ladder and
adequate natural or artificial lighting shall be provided to permit maintenance
inspection and testing of the backflow prevention device.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.33 INSPECTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the consumer at any premises on which backflow
prevention devices required by the regulations are installed to have inspection
tests, and repairs made in accordance with the following schedule or more often
where inspections indicate a need.
      (1)   Air separation shall be inspected at time of installation and at
least every 12 months thereafter.
      (2)   Double check valve assemblies shall be inspected and tested for
tightness at time of installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
      (3)   (a)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention devices shall
be inspected and tested for tightness at time of installation and at least
every 12 months thereafter.
         (b)   They shall be dismantled, inspected internally, cleaned, and
repaired whenever needed and at least every five years.
      (4)   Interchangeable connections shall be inspected at time of
installation and at least every 12 months thereafter.
   (B)   Inspections, tests, and repairs of backflow prevention devices shall
be made at the expense of the water consumer and shall be performed by a person
approved by the Board of Public Affairs as qualified to inspect, test, and
overhaul backflow prevention devices.
   (C)   Whenever backflow prevention devices required by these regulations are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the expense of the
consumer, without delay.
   (D)   The water consumer must maintain a complete record of each backflow
prevention device from purchase to retirement. This shall include a
comprehensive listing that includes a record of all tests, inspections, and
repairs. Records of inspections, tests, repairs, and overhauls shall be
submitted to the Superintendent of Water within 30-days after a test or repair
of a device is completed.
   (E)   Backflow prevention devices shall not be bypassed, made inoperative,
removed, or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the
Superintendent of Water.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.34 BOOSTER PUMPS.
   (A)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cut-off
device designed to shut-off the booster pump when the pressure in the service
line on the section side of the pump drops to ten pounds per square inch or
less.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the water consumer to maintain the low
pressure cut-off device in proper working order and to certify to the Board of
Public Affairs at least once a year that the device is operable.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.35 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Public Affairs shall deny or discontinue, after
reasonable notice to the occupants thereof, the water service to any premises
wherein any backflow prevention device required by these regulations is not
installed, tested, and maintained in a manner acceptable to the Board of Public
Affairs, or if it is found that the backflow prevention device has been removed
or bypassed, or if an unprotected cross-connection exists on the premises, or
if a low pressure shut-off required by these regulations is not installed and
maintained in working order.
   (B)   Water service to such premises shall not be restored until the
consumer has corrected or eliminated such conditions or defects in conformance
with these regulations and to the satisfaction of the Board of Public Affairs.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
§ 50.36 AUTHORITY OF BOARD OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS.
   It is hereby enacted that the village’s Board of Public Affairs shall have
the right to require a new tap, including payment of then established tap
charge, for any illegal taps which are discovered during the course of the
enforcement of this subchapter, or said Board of Public Affairs may, at its
election, charge a minimum usage charge for any additional taps which were
unknown for water and/or sewage usage flowing through any such illegal or
unauthorized taps. Only one such remedy or charge shall be selected by said
Board of Public Affairs. If the violating property owner fails to pay either
the tap charge or the minimum usage charge for the duration of the illegal tap,
then said Board of Public Affairs shall have the right to remove any such
illegal taps which are found as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 1449, passed 9-1-2009)
CHAPTER 51: SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Monthly charge
   
51.02   Storm sewer management fee
Sewer Use
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Use of public sewers required
   
51.17   Private sewage disposal
   
51.18   Permit requirement; tampering
   
51.19   Prohibited discharges
   
51.20   Protection from damage
   
51.21   Power and authority of inspectors
Rental Rates
   
51.35   Definitions
   
51.36   Service area
   
51.37   Sewer rental charge
   
51.38   Use of public sewers
   
51.39   Control of industrial wastes
   
51.40   Accidental discharges
   
51.41   Construction regulations
   
51.42   Application of rental charge
   
51.43   Lien of sewer rental
   
51.44   Use of funds
   
51.45   Enforcement
   
51.46   Grievances and appeals
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 MONTHLY CHARGE.
   Effective with September, 2014 usage/October, 2014 billing, there shall be a
monthly charge for each individual unit receiving water, whether for living or
otherwise, and whether separately metered or not, of $10 to be used for debt
repayment for permanent sewer projects conducted by the village.
(Ord. 1524, passed 9-2-2014)
§ 51.02 STORM SEWER MANAGEMENT FEE.
   (A)   The Board of Public Affairs shall manage and supervise all operations
with respect to storm sewers, including, but not limited to, the maintenance
and upkeep of existing storm sewers within the village.
   (B)   A storm sewer maintenance and operations fee of $7 per water meter
served by the village water system is hereby established for purposes of
maintaining, repairing, and/or replacing the storm sewer system in the village,
which fees shall be deposited to the Storm Sewer Enterprise Fund as collected,
and disbursed for storm sewer maintenance and repair and replacement as
determined from time to time by the Board of Public Affairs.
(Ord. 1390, passed 4-17-2007; Ord. 1680, passed 11-19-2024)
SEWER USE
§ 51.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BOARD. The Board of Public Affairs of the Village of Pemberville.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CLEANOUT. A special pipe structure for a sewer that extends to the ground
surface which allows access for a mechanical device to be inserted to clear
blockages and maintain flow in the sewer typically consisting of a wye fitting,
riser pipe, and a waterproof cap at the ground surface.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPAL WASTES. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with
such ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   MUNICIPAL WASTES TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating municipal wastes.
   MUNICIPAL WASTES WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating,
and disposing of municipal wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. Domestic wastes contributed by reason of human occupancy.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries municipal wastes and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted. INTERCEPTING SEWERS
shall be classified as SANITARY SEWERS.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit from carrying municipal wastes or which carries
storm and surface waters and drainage.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes municipal wastes.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Sewerage of the Village of
Pemberville, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, municipal wastes, or other liquids; and which are
removable by laboratory filtering.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Pemberville, Wood County, Ohio.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 1134, passed 4-7-1998)
§ 51.16 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural cutlet within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sanitary
sewage, industrial wastes or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this
ordinance.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   It is hereby determined that each lot or parcel of land on which a
building, commercial, industrial, or residential is located in the village
which is located within 1,500 feet of a fire hydrant is served or will be
served by the village sewerage system.
(Ord. 1134, passed 4-7-1998) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.17 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
51.16(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with the provisions of the regulations of the County Board of
Health.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the County Board of
Health.
   (C)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all provisions of the regulations of the
County Board of Health.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
51.16(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   (E)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
(Ord. 1134, passed 4-7-1998)
§ 51.18 PERMIT REQUIREMENT; TAMPERING.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   The owner or his or her agent shall make application for a building
sewer permit on a special form furnished by the village. The application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of
$5 shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the time the application is filed. In
addition to a permit and inspection fee, the owner or his or her agent shall
pay a deposit of $25 to the Village Clerk, which deposit shall be returned to
the owner or his or her agent upon submitting the report showing that the work
has been done and the permit completed. If the work is not completed within 30
days after the issuance of the same, the permit shall expire and the $25
deposit shall be forfeited. A limit of three permits can be issued at one time.
Upon return of the completed permits, further permits will be issued. The
permit for the work may be extended for an additional 30 days upon permission
of the Superintendent. Permits that have already been issued, will become void
30 days from the effective date of this subchapter unless the report is filed.
   (C)   Any person tapping into the sanitary or storm sewer main will have to
obtain a village sewer tapper’s license at nonrefundable cost of $20. Said
license shall expire on December 31 of the year of its issuance, and shall be
subject to an annual charge of $20 for such issuance. Said license may be
renewed at no charge for up to two additional six-month periods upon permission
of the Superintendent. To obtain said license, said person must obtain a surety
bond in an amount to be determined by the Board and present a certificate of
liability insurance including explosion, collapse, and underground coverage in
an amount determined by the Board.
   (D)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
village from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned
by the installation of the building sewer.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, in which
case, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear
building and the whole considered as one building sewer; and except where one
or more accessory buildings have building drains, in addition to the main
building, in which case the building drain from the main building may be
extended to the accessory buildings and the whole considered as one building
sewer; and with the further exception, that two adjacent buildings on separate
properties may use a common building sewer within the limits of the public
right-of-way, in which case, a separate permit shall be required for each
property.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and tested by the Superintendent, to meet
all requirements of this subchapter.
   (G)   The building sewer shall be of SDR 35 sewer pipe (ASTM Specification
D-3034-SDR35). Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet
of a water service pipe shall be constructed of C-900 water pipe (AWWA C900
Class 100 (DR25)).
   (H)   A property owner must install a cleanout for his or her building sewer
either at the village right- of-way or immediately outside the building. If the
property owner can prove to the Superintendent that a cleanout exists, then
this property will be exempt from this installation.
   (I)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the Superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
six inches and the slope of such six-inch pipe shall be not less than one-
eighth inch per foot. Common services for more than one building and services
for commercial or industrial uses shall be not less than six inches in
diameter.
   (J)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to and within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight alignment insofar
as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with properly curved pipe
and fittings.
   (K)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (L)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with the pipe
manufacturer’s recommendation, except that no backfill shall be placed until
the work has been inspected.
   (M)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
   (N)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at a riser or wye branch, if such outlet is available at a suitable
location. If no properly-located riser or wye branch is available, a saddle may
be cut into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the
downstream direction at an angle of about 45 degrees. The invert of the
building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a higher
elevation than the invert of the public sewer. A smoother, neat joint shall be
made, and the connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete.
Special fittings may be used for the connection only when approved by the
Superintendent.
   (O)   At all joints where building sewers or connection construction passes
under another sewer or drainage pipe, the sewer passed under must be supported
by an adequate cradle or encasement by concrete construction, and extra
precaution will be required in backfilling and consolidation in order to avoid
any danger of a break, settlement, or damage to the sewer passed under.
   (P)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, sump pumps, or other sources of surface run-
off or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which is in turn
connected directly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (Q)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent a minimum of 48 hours prior to ensure inspection, unless
emergency conditions prevail. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (R)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Ord. 1134, passed 4-7-1998) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water,
or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. All properties
served by the municipal sewer constructed during the 1998 sewer separation
project shall discharge all sanitary sewage from said properties only to the
sanitary sewer constructed incident to said project. Existing properties tapped
into the former combined sewer for sewage purposes shall have until on or
before October 1, 1999 in which to reconfigure their sewer discharge so as to
discharge sanitary sewage to the sanitary sewer constructed incident to the
separation project, with only storm water to remain tapped into the storm sewer
created incident to the separation project. From and after October 1, 1999,
only “sanitary sewage”, as defined in §
51.15, shall be permitted to be discharged in the “sanitary sewer”, as defined
in §
51.15, and only storm and surface waters and unpolluted drainage shall be
permitted to be discharged in the “storm sewer”, as defined in §
51.15.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the Board. Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged upon approval of the Board to a storm sewer or natural
outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following waste materials to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (3)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation to the municipal wastes works; or
      (4)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (D)   The admission of any industrial wastes containing critical
characteristics such as excessive temperatures that exceed 140°F, oils, fats,
or grease; pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5; or having other corrosive
properties, toxic or poisonous ingredients; excessive suspended solids;
cyanide, free acid or caustic alkaline solution; or any other constituent
critical to municipal wastes collection and treatment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Board. When, in the opinion of the Board,
preliminary treatment or control of wastes are necessary, suitable facilities
shall be constructed according to plans approved by the Board, or the Board may
prohibit the discharge of said wastes to any public sewer.
   (E)   (1)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Board, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand,
and other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of a type and capacity approved by the Board, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   (F)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (G)   The admission into the pubic sewers of any waters or wastes having a
five-day biochemical oxygen demand in excess of normal sewage shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Board. When necessary, in the opinion of the
Board, such preliminary treatment as may be needed to control the quantities
and rates of discharges or reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents
shall be constructed according to plans approved by the Board, or the Board may
prohibit the discharge of said wastes to any public sewer.
   (H)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation, by the owner at his or her expense.
   (I)   When required by the Board, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Board. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (J)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in divisions (D) and (G) above shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, as published by the American Public Health
Association, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in
division (I) above, or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In
the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall
be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (H)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefor by
the industrial concern.
(Ord. 1134, passed 4-7-1998; Ord. 1156, passed 2-16-1999; Ord. 1318, passed 5-
3-2005) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the municipal wastes works. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 1134, passed 4-7-1998) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Board shall make and enforce rules and regulations, subject to
approval of Council, establishing the types and characteristics of sanitary
sewage and industrial wastes and other matter, not specifically covered in this
subchapter, which shall not be discharged into the village sewerage system and
the types and characteristics of sanitary sewage and industrial wastes
admissible to the village sewerage system only after pretreatment. Such rules
and regulations shall be subject to appeal to the Council which shall appoint
three reputable and qualified persons to investigate the appeal and agree to
affirm or reject the ruling of the Board.
   (B)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter; provided,
however, if the owner objects, no inspector shall enter upon any building or
premises without first obtaining a search warrant in the manner prescribed by
law.
(Ord. 1134, passed 4-7-1998)
RENTAL RATES
§ 51.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. The Village of Pemberville acting through its designated
representative for all areas included in the respective sewer district
tributary to the Authority’s WWTP.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (one and one-half meters) outside the inner face of the
inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called HOUSE CONNECTION.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any aggregation of space, office, laundry, restaurant,
stores, tavern, shops, and other like units, which is equipped with one or more
water fixtures draining into the wastewater disposal system, separate and
distinct from other users of service. In office buildings or other premises
containing more than one tenant, only those tenants shall be classified as
users of service who occupy space equipped with a distinct opening or fixture
or set of fixtures for the use of water separately from other tenants and with
waste draining into the water disposal.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Include BOD, suspended solids, pH, and fecal coliform
bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
publicly owned treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. Examples of such
additional pollutants may include: COD; total organic carbon; phosphorus and
phosphorus compounds; nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; fats, oils, and greases
of animal or vegetable origin except as prohibited under §
51.38.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGES. Charges resulting from the capital investment in
wastewater system consisting of the annual principal and interest payments and
other amounts required in connection with the issuance and sale of bonds to
provide the funds for construction.
   ENGINEER. The consulting engineer designated by the Village Council.
   FEDERAL ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,
Pub. Law No. 92-500, and any amendments thereto; as well as any guidelines,
limitations, and standards promulgated by the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency pursuant to the Act.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of food.
   GOVERNMENT USER. Any user discharging wastewater from premises utilized by
public political units, including federal, state, county, and Authority units.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as
defined above.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A person who discharges to the Authority’s wastewater
disposal system liquid, solid, or gaseous wastes resulting from the processes
employed in industrial or manufacturing activities, or from the development,
recovering, or processing of any natural resource. INDUSTRIAL USERS are
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, under Divisions A, B, D, E, and I.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade, or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any person discharging wastewater from premises serving
educational, social, or eleemosynary purposes, including, but not limited to,
private schools, hospitals, nursing homes, churches, and charitable
organizations.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. Industrial user of the publicly owned treatment
works that: has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day; has a
flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal system receiving the
waste; has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of the Federal Act; or is found by the permit
issuance authority in connection with the issuance of an NPDES permit to the
publicly owned treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact,
either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on that
treatment works or upon the quality of effluent from the treatment works.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Wastewater that has a BOD concentration of not more
than 300 mg/l and a suspended solid concentration of not more than 300 mg/l and
discharged principally from dwellings such as residences, apartments, trailers,
and the like.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination Service Permit.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. The current, reasonable, and necessary costs of
operation and maintenance of the wastewater disposal system, paid or incurred,
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
including replacement costs, but excluding payments of principal and of
interest on obligations issued to finance the costs of acquisition and
construction of the treatment works.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ion, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 10.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, wastewater,
garbage, wastewater sludge, munition, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged
into water.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into publicly owned wastewater treatment facilities.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 centimeters) in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or general
utility.
   REPLACEMENT. Any expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed. Also known as EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT COSTS.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any aggregation of space or area occupied as a residence
and generating domestic wastewater. In multi-use premises, only those divisions
of the building utilized as domicile will be considered RESIDENTIAL USERS.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. An imposed charge upon all users receiving services
from the Authority’s sewage disposal system in a total amount sufficient to pay
the costs of the system. SEWER SERVICE CHARGES consist of a debt service
charge, an operation and maintenance charge, and a surcharge (if applicable).
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24 hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER). A drain or sewer for conveying water, ground
water, subsurface water, or unpolluted water from any source.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Water Pollution Control Operator of the Village of
Pemberville or his or her authorized representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as NONFILTERABLE RESIDUE.
   TOXIC POLLUTANTS. Include, but not necessarily be limited to, aldrin-
dieldrin, benzidine, cadmium, cyanide, DDT-endrin, mercury, polychlorinated
biphenyls (PCBs) and toxaphene. Pollutants included as TOXIC shall be those
promulgated as such by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   USER. Any property upon which an on-lot system has been constructed and is
available for use, whether or not it is actually connected to the building
drain.
   USER CHARGE. The portion of the total wastewater service charge which is
levied in a proportional and adequate manner for the cost of operation,
maintenance, and replacement of the wastewater treatment works.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT, WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, or WATER
POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.36 SERVICE AREA.
   It is hereby determined that each lot or parcel of land on which a building,
commercial, industrial, or residential, is located in the village which is
located within 1,500 feet of a fire hydrant is served or will be served by the
village sewerage system.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.37 SEWER RENTAL CHARGE.
   For the purpose of providing for the cost of the management, maintenance,
operation, and repair of the sewerage system and sewage pumping, treatment, and
disposal works and for the enlargement or replacement of the system and works,
and for the construction and reconstruction of main and interceptor sewers and
the payment of interest on any debt incurred for the construction thereof,
there is hereby levied and assessed upon each lot or parcel of land in the
village a sewer rental charge as hereinafter provided.
   (A)   Deficit prohibited. As part of the annual review provided herein, the
Authority or other representative shall make an estimate of the revenues and
expenses for the next year. After deducting the estimated operation and
maintenance costs, the estimated debt service costs, and the repair and
replacement reserve payment from the total estimated revenues and net carryover
from the previous year, the system shall maintain a positive working capital.
   (B)   Monthly user charge (UC). The monthly sanitary sewer rental charge
shall be calculated on the volume of wastewater discharged directly or
indirectly into the sewage system and shall be measured by the water used by
each sewer user as shown by the water meter readings. The sanitary sewer
service charge shall consist of the sum of the operation, maintenance, and
replacement charge, the debt service charge, and the sewer surcharge rate (if
applicable) calculated as follows.
      (1)   Operation, maintenance, and replacement charge (OMR). A
proportionate monthly rate for the operation, maintenance, and replacement of
the sewage disposal system based on metered water used per month, shall be
charged to all users based upon the following formula:
OMR = (A/Q) x M
Where A =   Total monthly operation, maintenance, and replacement costs for the
wastewater treatment plant and collection system.
Q =    Total number of metered gallons of water sold to users connected to the
sanitary sewer system.
M =    Monthly metered water usage per user. There shall be a minimum charge
per month per user of 1,000 gallons usage, regardless of actual consumption.
      (2)   Debt service charge rate (DSC). The debt retirement monthly rate
per user for repayment of all capital costs associated with the construction of
the sewage disposal system shall be charged to all users of the sanitary sewer
system as a flat rate based upon the following formula:
DSC =   B/(users x 12 months/year)
Where B =    Total amortized annual debt service payments for all original
construction of the sewage disposal system.
Users =    Total number of users in the system.
      (3)   Sewage surcharge rate (SSR).
         (a)   Industrial wastewater into the public sewers as determined by
this subchapter shall be subject to surcharges determined monthly on the basis
of the following formula:
P = (A) x BOD + (B) x SS
Where P =   Monthly surcharge
BOD =   Pounds of biochemical oxygen demand per month in excess of 300 mg/
l concentration in the wastewater.
SS =   Pounds of suspended solids per month in excess of 300 mg/
l concentration.
         (b)   In the above formula, A and B refer to the total expenditures
per pound of BOD and suspended solids, respectively, to collect, convey, and
treat the wastewater as annually determined and set by ordinance by the
village.
         (c)   In summary, the monthly user charge shall be calculated as
follows:
               UC = OMR + DSC + SSR
            1.   The sewer charge herein assessed shall be in addition to the
charge made for water used.
            2.   Where a private water supply is used, the sewer rental charge
may be calculated by requiring the property owner to meter the private water
supply, such metering to be at the property owner’s expense and such
measurement to be used in the same manner as a public water meter in
determining the charge. The Board may, at its option, in lieu of such metering,
apply the minimum sewer charge to such premises. Each residence or separate
commercial or industrial establishment shall be subject to a separate sewer
rental charge even though such establishment may be served by a sewer
connection common to other premises. If it be found by the Board that the water
or waste measured or metered for any customer is greater than that actually
being discharged directly or indirectly into the sewage system, the Board may
modify and adjust such volume in accordance with the facts and with justice and
equity, but no charge less than the minimum shall be made for any customer
subject to the sewer charge.
            3.   Service will be provided to the users of the system in
accordance with the terms of this regulation. No user shall be provided service
without payment of sewer service charges in proportion to the service available
to such users. No one, including the Authority, shall subsidize the cost of
operating, maintaining, or replacement of the sewage disposal system.
   (C)   Annual review of user charges.
      (1)   Pursuant to U.S. EPA regulations, the user charges shall be
reviewed annually to accomplish the following purposes:
         (a)   To maintain the proportionate distribution of operation,
maintenance, and replacement costs among users and user classes; and
         (b)   To generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation,
maintenance, replacement, capital, and working capital costs of the sewage
disposal system.
      (2)   The annual review of the user charges shall be conducted by the
Authority or by a consulting engineer. A written report shall be prepared and
submitted to the Village Council on or before July 1 of each year. The report
shall summarize actual operations for the year just ended and, based upon at
least two years projections (the current year and the next year), shall
recommend a rate increase or decrease effective January 1 of the next year. At
the time recommended in the report, the village shall, by appropriate
ordinance, set the schedule of rates and charges for the users of the system.
      (3)   In addition to the authority of the Village Council to increase or
decrease rates on January 1 of each year, the Council may, at any time,
increase or decrease rates if the Council determines a modification of the
rates is required in order to comply with this regulation, any revenue bond
resolution, or to adjust rates to reflect final costs.
      (4)   The village shall notify all users annually what portion of the
rates are for operation, maintenance, and replacement costs.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.38 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Prohibition on unpolluted water. No person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any (unpolluted) storm water, surface water, ground water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water, or unpolluted
industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer. Any existing roof drain
connections to sanitary or combined sewers shall be connected into an available
storm sewer or shall be disconnected above ground in the manner approved by the
Board of Public Affairs. The owner of all buildings situated within the village
is required at his or her expense to disconnect all existing roof drains from
sanitary and combined sewers in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so.
   (B)   Allowable discharge of unpolluted water. Storm water and all other
unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as are specifically
designated as combined sewers or storm drain or to a natural outlet approved by
the Board of Public Affairs and other regulatory agencies. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged on approval of the
Board of Public Affairs to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (C)   Substances prohibited. No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public sewers
or treatment works:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the wastewater works.; or
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interferences with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to:
ashes, bones, cinder, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers,
tar, plastics, wood, underground garbage; whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails; and paper dishes, cups milk containers, and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   Substances limited. The following described substances, materials,
waters, or waste shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater
treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream, or will not otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property,
or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set limitations lower than the
limitations established in the regulations below if, in his or her opinion,
such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives.
Deliberate dilution with unpolluted water to meet the concentrations
established in the regulations below shall not be acceptable. In forming his or
her opinion as to the acceptability, the Superintendent will give consideration
to such facts as the quantity of subject waste in relation to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, the
wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, degree of treatability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant,
and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 50 mg/l of petroleum oil,
nonbiodegradable cutting oils, product of mineral oil origin, or floatable
oils, fat, wax, or grease;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where
garbage originates from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing solids, liquids, or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant, including, but not limited
to, cyanides, hexavalent chromium, copper, zinc, cadmium, nickel, and phenols
in the wastes as discharged to the public sewer.
         (a)   The following concentrations shall not be exceeded in industrial
wastes discharged to the public sewers.
Cadmium             0.2 mg/l
Copper              1.0 mg/l
Hexavalent chromium 1.0 mg/l
Lead                0.5 mg/l
Mercury             0.01 mg/l
Nickel              2.0 mg/l
Phenols             0.2 mg/l
Silver              0.2 mg/l
Total cyanide (CN)  0.5 milligrams per liter (mg/l)
Zinc                1.0 mg/l
 
         (b)   These maximum concentrations may be changed as necessary by the
Superintendent or state regulatory agencies based on new information concerning
inhibitory substances or to protect treatment plant processes. Industrial
dischargers covered by federal pretreatment requirements shall meet those
limitations specified under the effluent guidelines published under §§ 204(b)
and 307(b) of the Federal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284(b) and 33 U.S.C. § 1317,
respectively, or the above concentrations, whichever is more stringent. Major
contributing industries discharging incompatible pollutants into the public
sewers shall be regulated as provided in this section and §§
51.37 and
51.39.
      (5)   Any waters or waste containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the Superintendent or any local or state
regulatory agencies;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits in compliance with applicable state or
federal regulations;
      (7)   Quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein;
      (8)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant effluent
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters; and
      (9)   Any water or wastes which by interaction with other water or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, form suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system, or create a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes.
   (E)   Authority for control of wastewater discharges.
      (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in divisions (C) and (D) above, and which in the
judgment of the engineer may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, including violation of
applicable water quality standards, or which otherwise create a hazard to life
or constitute a public nuisance, the engineer may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes under the provisions of division (C) above.
      (2)   All industrial wastes discharged to the public sewers by major
contributing industries shall at a minimum meet the national pretreatment
standards or best practical control technology currently available for
incompatible pollutants as published in Title 40 C.F.R. Part 125 unless the
village is committed, in its NPDES permit, to remove a specified percentage of
the incompatible pollutant. In these instances, the applicable pretreatment
standards may be correspondingly reduced to levels determined by the engineer,
or his or her duly authorized representative, or state regulatory agencies.
      (3)   If the engineer requires pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the engineer and state regulatory agencies and
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (F)   Protection from damage. No unauthorized person shall maliciously,
willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the municipal
waste works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of criminal damage or vandalism.
   (G)   Powers and authority of inspectors.
      (1)   The Authority, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall
be permitted to enter all private properties through which the Authority holds
a duly negotiated easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of
the sewage works lying within such easement. All entry and subsequent work, if
any, on such easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the
duly negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
      (2)   While performing the necessary work on private properties, the
Authority shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established
by the owner and the Authority.
      (3)   The Authority, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall
present them to the owner, agent, or present occupant of properties before
entering for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and
testing, in accordance with the provisions contained herein. The Authority
shall also obtain and present a proper search warrant if the owner, agent, or
present occupant requests one. A request by the owner, agent, or present
occupant that the Authority obtain a search warrant is an exercisable right of
the requesting party and shall not constitute failure to cooperate, nor shall
it constitute a failure to comply with the provisions herein. The Authority
shall have no right to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond the point
of having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge into the sewers
or waterways to facilities for waste treatment.
   (H)   Limiting sewer connections. The Authority shall limit connections into
sewer lines if sufficient capacity to handle and treat additional wastewater is
unavailable in the system.
      (1)   Any person applying for a permit to connect to a public sewer shall
provide, with the application for said building sewer permit, sufficient data,
as required by the Authority, regarding the location, type of wastewater, and
amount of flow to be conveyed to the public sewer.
      (2)   Any costs associated with additional charges herein shall be borne
by the person applying for the building sewer permit.
   (I)   Grease and oil interceptors. For grease, oil, and inorganic material
such as sand, grit, and the like, interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the engineer, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
division (D)(2) above, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity approved by the engineer, and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal by appropriate means of the captured materials and shall maintain
records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by the owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed
waste disposal firms.
   (J)   Operation of pretreatment facilities. Where pretreatment or if low-
equalizing facilities are provided or required for any waters or wastes, they
shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (K)   Analyses. All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics
of waters and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association. Sampling methods, location, times, durations, and frequencies are
to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the
Superintendent.
   (L)   Special conditions. No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the
village and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to
possible payment therefor by the industrial concern for subsequent treatment.
Any industrial concern may appeal to the Council any determination made by the
engineer in the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.39 CONTROL OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Submission of basic data. Within 30 days after passage of the
ordinance codified herein, each person whose operation entails the discharge of
industrial wastes to a public sewer shall prepare and file with the engineer a
written statement setting forth the nature of the operation contemplated or
presently carried on, the amount and source of water required for use, the
proposed point of discharge of said wastes into the wastewater collection
system of the village, the estimated amount to be so discharged, and a fair
statement setting forth the expected bacterial, physical, chemical, and other
known characteristics of said wastes. Within a reasonable time of receipt of
such statement, it shall be the duty of the village to make an order stating
such minimum restrictions as in the judgment of the engineer may be necessary
to adequately guard against unlawful uses of the village’s wastewater system.
   (B)   Extension of time. When it can be demonstrated that circumstances
exist which would create an unreasonable burden on the person to comply with
the time schedule imposed by division (A) above of this section, a request for
extension of time may be presented for consideration of the engineer. All
requests for extension of time shall be submitted in writing stating the
reasons for such a request. Under no circumstances shall the extension of time
exceed 30 days after approval of the extension by the engineer.
   (C)   Control manholes.
      (1)   Each person discharging industrial wastes into a public sewer shall
construct and maintain one or more control manholes or access points to
facilitate observation, measurement, and sampling of his or her wastes,
including sanitary wastewater.
      (2)   Control manholes or access facilities shall be located and built in
a manner acceptable to the engineer. If measuring devices are to be permanently
installed, they shall be of a type acceptable to the engineer.
      (3)   Control manholes, access facilities, and related equipment shall be
installed by the person discharging the waste at his or her expense, and shall
be maintained by him or her so as to be in safe condition, accessible and in
proper operating condition at all times. Plans for the installation of such
facilities shall be approved by the engineer prior to the beginning of
construction.
   (D)   Wastewater volume determination.
      (1)   The volume of flow used for computing industrial waste surcharges
shall be the metered water consumption of the person as shown in the records of
water meter readings maintained by the village, except as herein provided in
this division (D).
      (2)   If the person discharging industrial wastes into the public sewers
procures any part, or all, of this water from sources other than the village
water system, all or part of which is discharged into the public sewer, the
person shall install and maintain, at his or her expense, water meters of a
type approved by the engineer for the purpose of determining the volume of
water obtained from those other sources.
      (3)   The person discharging industrial wastes into the public sewers may
install and maintain, at his or her expense, metering devices for determining
the volume of waste being discharged to the public sewer, from which the
industrial waste surcharge would be computed. The measuring devices shall be of
a type acceptable to the engineer.
      (4)   The engineer may require the installation of devices for measuring
the volume of waste discharged if those volumes cannot otherwise be determined
from the metered water consumption records.
      (5)   Any metering device for determining the volume of waste discharged
to the public sewer shall be installed, owned, and maintained by the person.
Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed without the
consent of the engineer.
   (E)   Sampling and monitoring.
      (1)   Industrial wastes discharged into the public sewers shall be
subject to periodic inspection with a determination of character and
concentration of said wastes. The determination shall be made as often as may
be deemed necessary by the engineer, but in no case less than two 24-hour
composite samples per month. The owner shall be responsible for the collection
and testing of the aforementioned samples.
      (2)   Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be representative
of the composition of the wastes. The sample shall be accomplished by the use
of automatic sampling equipment capable of collecting composite samples.
      (3)   Access to sampling location shall be granted to the engineer or his
or her authorized representative at all times. Every care shall be exercised in
the collection of samples to ensure their preservation in a state comparable to
that at the time the sample was taken.
   (F)   Analyses.
      (1)   Laboratory procedures used in the examination of industrial wastes
shall be those set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods; however,
alternative methods for certain analyses of industrial wastes may be used
subject to mutual agreement between the engineer and the person.
      (2)   Determination of the character and concentration of the industrial
wastes shall be made by the person responsible for the discharge, or his or her
qualified agent as approved by the engineer. The results of the analyses shall
be reported to the village on a monthly basis on forms provided by the village.
The village shall make its own analyses on the wastes and these determinations
shall be binding as a basis for charges, except under circumstances in division
(F)(3) below.
      (3)   In case the analyses performed by the industry and the village
result in substantially different values, an effort shall be made by the
industry to collect samples at the same time the village collects its own
samples. The results of the analyses on the sample collected by the village and
the industry shall be compared using the same testing procedures as outlined in
the latest edition of Standard Methods and the differences negotiated.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.40 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement of arrangement between the Authority and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the Authority for treatment, subject to payment therefor by
the industrial concern in proportion to cost and consistent with the user
charge system.
   (B)   Each nonresidential user may be required to provide protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes regulated by this
regulation. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the cost of the owner. Detailed plans
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide such protection shall be
submitted for review by the Authority, and shall be approved by the Authority
before construction of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and
operating procedures shall not relieve the nonresidential user from the
responsibility to modify the facility as necessary to meet the requirements
contained in this regulation.
   (C)   If, for any reason, a nonresidential user does not comply with or will
be unable to comply with any prohibition or limitations herein, the user shall
immediately notify the Authority that corrective action may need to be taken to
protect the treatment plant. In addition, a written report addressed to the
Authority detailing the date, time, and discharge, and corrective action taken
to prevent future discharges, shall be filed by the user within five days of
the occurrence of the noncomplying discharge.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.41 CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   The construction of building sewers and connections shall be in accordance
with the provisions of Ord. 485.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.42 APPLICATION OF RENTAL CHARGE.
   (A)   Where a sewer is available, it will be presumed that the waste from
the premises either will be discharged directly or indirectly into the sewerage
system and the property will be subject to the sewer rental charge.
   (B)   Where premises are not served directly or indirectly by the sewerage
system and should be exempt from the sewer rental charge, it will be the
responsibility of the property owner or other interested party to notify the
Board of said claim for exemption.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.43 LIEN OF SEWER RENTAL.
   The owner of each lot, land, or premises connected to the sanitary or
combined sewer system in the village or having such connection available shall,
as well as the lessee of such lot, land, or premises, be liable to the village
for any charge or rental levied by this subchapter. All charges for rentals
shall be collected by the Board of Public Affairs, which Board shall make and
enforce such by-laws, rules, and regulations as may be deemed necessary. Should
any sewer rental levied by this subchapter remain unpaid for 60 days after it
shall be due and payable, it shall be certified to the County Auditor, who
shall place the same upon the tax duplicate of the county, with the interest
and penalties allowed by law, and shall collect it as other taxes are
collected.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.44 USE OF FUNDS.
   The funds received from the collection of the charges or rentals authorized
by this subchapter shall be deposited with the Clerk/Treasurer and be known as
the Sewer Fund, and when appropriated by the Council of the village, shall be
available for the payment of the costs and expenses of the management,
maintenance, operation, and repair of the village sanitary and combined
sewerage system and the sewage treatment plant, debt service costs, payment of
interest on bonds which may be issued to provide funds for the construction,
improvement, enlargement, or replacement of such sanitary and combined sewerage
system or sewage treatment plant or of any part thereof, and to retire such
bonds when they mature and/or for the construction, improvement, enlargement,
or replacement of such sewerage system or sewage treatment plant or any part
thereof.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.45 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.35 to
51.46, except §
51.38(F), shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.46 GRIEVANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any user aggrieved by a decision of the Authority under this
regulation may file a written grievance with the Authority. The written
grievance shall set forth the substance of the Authority’s decision and the
basis of the user’s complaint.
      (2)   The Authority shall investigate the grievance and issue a written
determination. The determination should include the following:
         (a)   Name, address, and location of the premises of the user;
         (b)   A summary of the user’s claim;
         (c)   A summary of the facts revealed by the Authority’s
investigation;
         (d)   An interpretation of any applicable regulation, law, or policy;
         (e)   A notice of the user’s right of appeal to the Authority; and
         (f)   A copy of this grievance and appeal procedure.
      (3)   No legal action in the courts of the state or federal government
shall be initiated by any user until completion of this administrative remedy.
   (B)   (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
51.15 to
51.21, except §
51.20, shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit set by the Board for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $100 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.15 to
51.21 shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the village by reason of such violation.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in §
51.43 shall be guilty of misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $100 for each violation. Each day in which any
such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
51.35 to
51.46 shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the village by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 1121, passed 11-18-1997; Ord. 1134, passed 4-7-1998)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   DRIVING REGULATIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: DRIVING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Ohio Basic Code adopted
   
70.02   Parking during snow emergency
§ 70.01 OHIO BASIC CODE ADOPTED.
   Title_VII of the Ohio Basic Code is adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
§ 70.02 PARKING DURING SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   In order to facilitate the cleaning of village streets and to expedite
the free flow of vehicular traffic, motor vehicles shall not be parked on any
village street at such times as the U.S. Weather Bureau records indicate that
two inches of snow has fallen and there is a prospect of a further snowfall.
All cars parked prior to this time shall be removed by the owners or operators.
Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this prohibition shall be removed at
the order of the Chief of Police or Mayor and shall subject the owner or
operator to the fines provided herein.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of motor
vehicles to ascertain whether weather conditions require the removal of their
motor vehicles from the streets and to remove all cars parked in violation of
the provisions set forth in this section. While the village shall make every
effort to inform the public of the existence of weather conditions requiring
removal of parked automobiles from the streets, the owners and operators of
motor vehicles parked in these areas shall have full responsibility to
determine existing weather conditions and to remove parked vehicles if the
weather conditions are such as require their removal under the terms of this
section.
   (C)   After the U.S. Weather Bureau records indicate that two inches of snow
has fallen and there is a prospect of further snowfall, the Chief of Police or
Mayor shall order the removal of all vehicles parked on the streets, which have
not been removed by the owners or operators. Such vehicles shall be removed to
a motor vehicle pound as designated by the Traffic Code. Records shall be kept
by the Police Department of all vehicles removed.
   (D)   Any person or persons violating the provisions of this section with
respect to failure to remove parked motor vehicles when the weather conditions
described in this section require their removal shall be subject to the traffic
penalties provided by law for illegal parking in normally regulated streets. In
addition, where a car is towed to a motor vehicle pound, the car can be
recovered only upon the payment of the towing charges imposed.
   (E)   The Police Department shall use all available means of disseminating
information as to the existence of weather conditions requiring removal of
parked motor vehicles from the streets. Such notice shall be disseminated
through the radio, newspaper, and all other available media to the extent
feasible. The dissemination of this information, however, shall not relieve
owners or operators of motor vehicles from the responsibility of ascertaining
the existence of weather conditions requiring the removal of parked motor
vehicles from the village streets.
   (F)   The Street Department shall install appropriate signs on the streets
as indicated herein.
(Ord. 1251, passed 3-18-2003)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles, All-Terrain Vehicles, and the like
   
71.01   Definition
   
71.02   Operation on sidewalks prohibited
   
71.03   Requirements to drive on the street
   
71.04   Traffic regulations apply
Golf Carts
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Inspection of golf carts
   
71.17   Title and licensing requirements
   
71.18   Operation of golf carts
Bicycles and the like
   
71.30   Reckless operation
   
71.31   Riding or parking on sidewalk areas
 
   
71.99   Penalty
SNOWMOBILES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, AND THE LIKE
§ 71.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, steered by skis, runners, or caterpillar treads.
(Ord. 1269, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 71.02 OPERATION ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, and motorized
carts shall not be operated upon the sidewalks in the village or on the public
grounds of the village, nor on any private property without permission of the
owner, nor on Front Street (SR 105).
(Ord. 1269, passed 7-15-2003) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03 REQUIREMENTS TO DRIVE ON THE STREET.
   Said vehicles may be operated on the streets or highways of the village,
except Front Street, so long as they are operated by a licensed driver,
equipped as required by state law and all persons driving or riding are
equipped with safety glasses or other protective eye device. Operators who
reside on Front Street may travel on said street only to or from the nearest
village street.
(Ord. 1269, passed 7-15-2003)
§ 71.04 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLY.
   All operators shall comply with all the traffic regulations and ordinances
of the village for motor vehicles so far as not inconsistent with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1269, passed 7-15-2003)
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle with the primary design purpose for use on a golf
course and that has three or four wheels, has an attainable speed on paved
level surfaces of not more than 20 mph and with a gross vehicle weight of less
than $3,000. A GOLF CART shall not include utility vehicles, low-speed
vehicles, or motor-driven cycles or motor scooters as defined under R.C. §
4501.01, nor shall it include under- speed scooters not designed for use on a
golf course.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
(Ord. 1566, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 71.16 INSPECTION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a golf cart within the village unless the golf
cart has been inspected by the Chief of Police or designee for compliance with
the state’s statutory requirements that are applicable to motor vehicles and
such other equipment that may be determined necessary by the Chief of Police, a
list of such requirements shall be maintained at the Police Department and
shall include no less than the following:
      (1)   A minimum of one tail light, visible from a distance of 500 feet,
in compliance with R.C. § 4513.05;
      (2)   Two red reflectors on the rear of the vehicle and which may be
incorporated into the other rear lights in compliance with R.C. § 4513.06;
      (3)   Directional signals in compliance with R.C. § 4513.261, said rules
and regulations;
      (4)   Each cart shall have brackets for mounting a front and rear license
that must be illuminated in compliance with R.C. §§ 4513.05 and 4503.21;
      (5)   Each cart shall have a horn audible from not less than 200 feet in
compliance with R.C. § 4513.21;
      (6)   Each cart shall have a rearview mirror in compliance with R.C. §
4513.23;
      (7)   Each cart shall have two working headlights capable of illuminating
persons or objects at a distance of 75 feet, in compliance with R.C. § 4513.16;
      (8)   Each cart shall be equipped with two working brake lights, visible
from a distance of 500 feet in compliance with R.C. § 4513.071;
      (9)   Each cart shall have a wind shield with wiper blades in compliance
with R.C. § 4513.24;
      (10)   Each cart shall be equipped with seat belts for each occupant of
the cart which shall include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle
or closing device attached securely to the cart; and
      (11)   Each cart shall have a maximum speed of no more than 25 mph.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any golf cart shall be required to pay an
inspection fee of $25 to the General Fund of the village. If the Chief of
Police or designee determines that the golf cart complies with the state’s
statutory requirements that are applicable to motor vehicles, the Chief of
Police or designee shall issue the owner or operator a certificate entitling
the owner or operator to operate the golf cart on the streets within the
village. The owner or operator shall also show the Chief of Police or designee
proof of liability insurance for the golf cart before a certificate of
compliance is issued.
   (C)   The owner of a golf cart shall also comply with all requirements of
state law regarding proper title, registration, and license plates prior to
operating a golf cart on any streets within the village.
(Ord. 1566, passed 10-3-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 TITLE AND LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall send a letter to the Ohio Bureau of Motor
Vehicles, Deputy Registrar and Title Support Section, Columbus, Ohio,
certifying that the Chief of Police of the village has a program of inspecting
golf carts.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, upon a passing inspection of a golf cart,
provide the owner with a certificate of inspection on village letterhead which
shall include the inspection requirements.
   (C)   Vehicle owner shall submit the certificate of inspection to the County
Clerk of Courts for issuance of a title and shall present the title, with proof
of insurance, to the Deputy Registrar for issuance of license plates.
   (D)   Nothing pertaining herein shall supersede the requirements of the
state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles, Clerk of Courts, or Deputy Registrar’s
offices and the issuance of title and license plates shall be subject to
compliance with state law and each such office’s administrative rule.
(Ord. 1566, passed 10-3-2017)
§ 71.18 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   While operating a golf cart on the streets within the village, the
operator shall comply with any and all laws pertaining to motor vehicles,
including, without limitation, safety requirements and issuance requirements.
The operator shall also have a valid driver’s license for the operation of
motor vehicles in the state.
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart upon any street in the village
where the posted speed limit is 35 mph of greater; provided however, that a
person may operate a golf cart on roadways in the following manner:
      (1)   For the purposes of crossing a 35 mph and over roadway while
traveling to and from a sub 35 mph roadway;
      (2)   To the extent reasonably necessary to access a point of arrival, or
a point of destination, where the only reasonable point of access is located on
a 35 mph and over roadway; provided, however that travel on a 35 mph and over
roadway shall be no more than is necessary to access a point of departure or
destination located thereon. Sub 35 mph roadways shall be used when that option
is available for any portion of travel;
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, a 35 MPH AND OVER ROADWAY is one
which is posted or the legal speed limit is 35 mph or greater. For the purpose
of this section, a SUB 35 MPH ROADWAY is one in which the posted speed limit is
under 35 mph; and
      (4)   The driver shall be responsible for ensuring that all passengers
are in compliance with any child safety restraint laws in effect for motor
vehicles.
(Ord. 1566, passed 10-3-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
BICYCLES AND THE LIKE
§ 71.30 RECKLESS OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a bicycle or motorized bicycle:
   (A)   Without due regard for the safety and rights of pedestrians and
drivers and occupants of all other vehicles, and so as to endanger the lift,
limb, or property of any person while in the lawful use of the streets or
sidewalks or any other public or private property;
   (B)   Without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such bicycle;
   (C)   In a waving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary
for safe operation or in compliance with law;
   (D)   Without both hands upon the handle grips except when necessary to give
the required hand and arm signals; or
   (E)   At a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions
then existing.
(Ord. 1435, passed 11-4-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.31 RIDING OR PARKING ON SIDEWALK AREAS.
   (A) No person shall ride a bicycle or operate a skateboard or ride upon in-
line skates on any sidewalk area within the Downtown Central Business District;
however, bicycles may be parked on sidewalks or racks where provided and shall
not interfere with the right-of-way of any pedestrian.
   (B)   No person shall operate a skateboard or ride upon inline skates on any
city-owned and operated parking lot within a business district.
   (C)   No person shall ride a motorized bicycle on sidewalks at any time, nor
shall a motorized bicycle be parked on a sidewalk. Persons shall ride motorized
bicycles only on the streets and highways.
   (D)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle on a sidewalk outside a
Business District, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
and shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Ord. 1300, passed 8-17-2004; Ord. 1435, passed 11-4-2008) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation which violates §§
71.01 to
71.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, on conviction, be fined not
more than $50 for a first offense and not more than $100 for each subsequent
offense.
   (C)   An operator of a golf cart who violates §§
71.15 to
71.18 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense; on the second
offense within one year after the first offense, the person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and each subsequent offense within one year
after the first offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
71.30 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1269, passed 7-15-2003; Ord. 1435, passed 11-4-2008; Ord. 1566, passed
10-3-2017)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Stop intersections
   
II.   Yield intersections
   
III.   One-way streets
   
IV.   Truck regulations
   
V.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections shall be designated as stop intersections.
Bierley Avenue  Northbound at Front Street
                Southbound at Front Street
                Westbound at Hickory Street
Bond Street     Intersection with Maple Street
                Eastbound at Pine Street
Bridge Street   Eastbound at Bierley Avenue
                Westbound at Water Street
Cedar Street    Southbound at Front Street
                Westbound at Pine Street
Cherry Street   Eastbound at Cedar Street
                Westbound at Pine Street
                Eastbound at Bierley Avenue
College Street  Westbound at Hickory Street
                Both directions at Pine Street
Columbus Avenue Westbound at Bierley Avenue
                Southbound at College Street
Elm Street      Southbound at Joyce Avenue
                Northbound at Martin Avenue
                Southbound at Martin Avenue
Elmore Road     Westbound at Bierley Avenue
Forest Avenue   Westbound at Bierley Avenue
                North at College Street
                South at College Street
Hickory Street  Southbound at Front Street
                North at Perry Street
                Southbound at Perry Street
Joyce Avenue    Eastbound at Elm Street
Kesson Road     Eastbound at Water Street
                Eastbound at Front Street
Main Street     Westbound at Hickory Street
                Four-way stop at Maple Street
                Four-way stop at Oak Street
                Northbound at College Street
                Southbound at Front Street
Maple Street    Northbound at Main Street
                Southbound at Main Street
                Intersection with Perry Street
Marshall Avenue Eastbound at Elm Street
Martin Avenue   Eastbound at Bierley Avenue
Memorial Drive  Northbound at College Street
                Southbound at Front Street
                Intersection with Bond Street
                Northbound at College Street
Oak Street      Southbound at Front Street
                Northbound at Main Street
                Southbound at Main Street
                Eastbound at Hickory Street
                Westbound at Hickory Street
Perry Street    Intersection with Oak Street
                Intersection with Maple Street
                Eastbound at Pine Street
Pine Street     Northbound at College Street
                Southbound at Front Street
                East exit to Front Street
Sherman Avenue  Southbound at Front Street
                West exit to Front Street
South Street    Westbound at Bierley Avenue
                Eastbound at Front Street
Vine Street     Westbound at Hickory Street
                Intersection with Oak Street
Water Street    Northbound at Front Street
 
(Ord. 922, passed 2-21-1989; Ord. 1292, passed 6-15-2004; Ord. 1345, passed 1-
3-2006; Ord. 1450, passed 9-1-2009)
SCHEDULE II. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   The following intersections are designated as “yield” intersections.
Alley at rear of Business District - south side Eastbound at Water Street
East Street                                     Southbound at South Street
                                                Northbound at Bond Street
Maple Street                                    Southbound at Bond Street
                                                Northbound at Perry Street
                                                Southbound at Perry Street
                                                Northbound at Bond Street
Oak Street                                      Southbound at Bond Street
                                                Northbound at Perry Street
                                                Southbound at Perry Street
Walnut Street                                   Northbound at Cherry Street
 
(Ord. 922, passed 2-21-1989)
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The alley between Cedar Street and the Bethlehem Lutheran Church parking lot
shall be designated a “one-way” alley with traffic direction being east from
Cedar Street.
(Ord. 812, passed 2-21-1984)
SCHEDULE IV. TRUCK REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this schedule, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         COMMERCIAL TRACTOR, SEMI-TRAILER, and PUBLIC ROADS AND HIGHWAYS. Have
the same meaning as appears in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (2)   No person shall operate a commercial tractor semi-trailer rig on
Bierley Avenue within the limits of the village.
      (3)   Bierley Avenue is hereby designated as a no through trucks roadway,
closed to commercial tractor semi-trailer rigs.
      (4)   It shall be an affirmative defense to any violation of this
schedule that the operator of the commercial tractor trailer rig was in the
process of making a delivery within the village at the time of the violation.
      (5)   Violation of this schedule constitutes a minor misdemeanor,
subjecting violators thereto to a maximum fine of $100 on the first violation
in one year; a misdemeanor of the fourth degree with a fine of $250 on the
second violation within one year; and a misdemeanor in the third degree with a
fine of $500 on the third violation within a one-year period.
   (B)   (1)   Right hand turns by semi-tractor trailers traveling westbound on
State Route 105 in the village onto Hickory Street are hereby prohibited.
      (2)   Signs prohibiting such turns shall be placed at said intersection
in full view of westbound traffic.
      (3)   Noncompliance with aforesaid provisions in divisions (B)(1) and (B)
(2) shall be a minor misdemeanor under the pertinent provisions of the Ohio
Basic Code § 70.30.
   (C)   (1)   Turns by semi-tractor trailers traveling on State Route 105 in
the village onto Cedar Street are hereby prohibited.
      (2)   Signs prohibiting such turns shall be placed at said intersection
in full view of westbound traffic.
      (3)   Noncompliance with aforesaid provisions in division (C)(1) shall be
a minor misdemeanor under the pertinent provisions of the Ohio Basic Code §
70.30.
(Ord. 1014, passed 9-15-1992; Ord. 1604, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 1664, passed 5-
7-2024)
SCHEDULE V. SPEED LIMITS.
   The maximum speed limit on Bierley Avenue from the south corporation limits
to South Street is hereby established at 35 mph, and from South Street north to
the north corporation line is hereby established at 25 mph.
(Ord. 1288, passed 2-3-2004)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
   
II.   Limited parking spaces
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   The parking or operation of vehicles or motor vehicles, as defined in
the Ohio Revised Code, in or upon the old Penn Central Railroad right-of-way
now owned by the village is hereby prohibited, except that village safety and
maintenance vehicles are excepted from the operation of this schedule, and
except that short term (30 minutes or less) parking and/or operation of
vehicles and motor vehicles for loading, unloading, or patronizing adjacent or
neighboring businesses or residences, or for emergency purposes, shall be
permitted so long as the activity is not on the walking trail itself.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of unlawful parking or
operation upon village property, a minor misdemeanor punishable by a maximum
fine of $100. A second violation of division (A) above within one year shall
constitute a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 1070, passed 5-7-1996)
SCHEDULE II. LIMITED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   (1)   The first space on the east and west side of Walnut Street, from
Front Street north, be restricted to 15 minute parking, said restriction shall
be in effect Monday through Saturday from 8:00 a.m. until 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   Said spaces shall be identified and posted by appropriate signs.
Every person convicted of a violation of division (A)(1) above shall be fined
$10 if said fine is paid at the village offices within 15 days of the issuance
of the notice of violation, otherwise every person who violates this division
(A) shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be no parking on the paved area on Front Street at
any time except as follows: subject to the restrictions hereinafter contained,
parallel parking shall be permitted on Front Street between Pine and Cedar
Streets and parallel parking shall be permitted on the south side of Front
Street from Pine Street to a point two-tenths of a mile west of the New York
Central Railroad and on the north side of Front Street between Cedar Street and
Bierley Avenue.
      (2)   On the north and south side of Front Street (SR 105) from Pine
Street east to Water Street, on the west side of Water Street from Front Street
(SR 105) to the bridge, and on both the east and west sides of Walnut Street
where marked, parking shall be subject to the following limitations:
         (a)   During the hours from 6:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, and during the hours from 6:00 a.m. until 10:
00 p.m. on Saturdays, parking shall be limited to two hours.
         (b)   During the hours from 4:00 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. every day,
including Sundays and holidays, there shall be no parking in the above areas.
         (c)   On Sundays and holidays, the two-hour parking limitation shall
not apply.
      (3)   Every person convicted of a violation of division (B) shall be
fined $10 for each offense if said fine is paid within ten days’ of notice of
said violation at the village offices, otherwise, all persons who violate
division (B) shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 318, passed 2-7-1955; Ord. 943, passed 12-5-1989; Ord. 1319, passed 5-3-
2005; Ord. 1322, passed 5-3-2005)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Failure to confine animals
   
90.02   Dangerous/poisonous animals
   
90.03   Prohibited animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 FAILURE TO CONFINE ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner or person having charge of birds, cats, cattle, dogs,
ferrets, gerbils, guinea pigs, hamsters, horses, sheep, pigs, rabbits, geese,
ducks, turkeys, chickens, or other fowl or domestic animals shall at all times
keep such animals confined upon the premises of the owner or person having
charge, or under absolute physical control by the owner or person having charge
when off said premises. In the event such animal is being walked upon a leash,
it must not exceed ten feet in length.
   (B)   The running at large of any such animal off the premises of the owner
or person having charge is prima facie evidence of failure to keep an animal
confined in violation of this section.
(Ord. 1110, passed 6-17-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 DANGEROUS/POISONOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or have in his or her
possession or under his or her control within the village any poisonous reptile
or any other dangerous or carnivorous wild animal or reptile, and vicious or
dangerous domesticated animal, or any other animal or reptile of wild, vicious,
or dangerous propensities.
(Ord. 1111, passed 6-17-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or have in his or her
possession or under his or her control within the village any of the following
animals:
   (A)   Any animal which has been declared to be protected or endangered by
the U.S. Department of Interior and/or the Ohio Revised Code;
   (B)   All poisonous animals, including rear-fang snakes;
   (C)   Badgers (mellinae);
   (D)   Bears (ursidae);
   (E)   Beavers (castoridae);
   (F)   Canids (i.e., wolves, foxes, coyotes, jackals, dingo, and racoon
dogs);
   (G)   Civet (viverrines);
   (H)   Civet or raccoon dog (nycterevtes procyonoides);
   (I)   Constrictor snakes;
   (J)   Crocadilians (i.e., alligators, crocodiles, caimans, and cavials);
   (K)   Eagles, hawks, and owls (falconiformes);
   (L)   Edentata (i.e., anteaters, tamanduas, sloths, and armadillos);
   (M)   Emus (casuariiformes);
   (N)   Felids (i.e., lions, tigers, leopards, cheetans, jaguars, pumas, lynx,
and ocelots);
   (O)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
   (P)   Hyenidae (hyenas);
   (Q)   Marsupials (i.e., opossums, tasmanian wolf, kangaroos, koalas, and
wombats);
   (R)   Muskrats (ondatra);
   (S)   Ostriches (struthio);
   (T)   Porcupine (hystricomorpha);
   (U)   Primates (non-human) (i.e., apes, monkeys, baboons, chimpanzees,
gibbons, gorillas, orangutans, and siamangs;
   (V)   Procyonids (i.e., raccoons, coatis, kinkajous, ring-tailed cats, and
panda);
   (W)   Rheas (rheiformes);
   (X)   Skunks (mephitinae);
   (Y)   Squirrels (sciuridae);
   (Z)   Sharks (chondrichthyes);
   (AA)   Swine (suidae);
   (BB)   Ungulates (i.e., elephants, zebra, tapirs, rhinoceroses, camel,
liama, caribou, antelope, bison, reindeer, deer, giraffe, hippopotamus, wild
boar, gazelle, and gnu);
   (CC)   Water buffalo (bubalus);
   (DD)   Wart hogs (phacocherus aethiopicus);
   (EE)   Weasels;
   (FF)   Wolverines (gulo gulo);
   (GG)   Woodchucks (marmota monas); and
   (HH)   Any other dangerous animal. DANGEROUS ANIMAL includes any wild
mammal, reptile, or fowl which is not naturally tame or gentle, but is of a
wild nature or disposition and which because of its size a vicious nature or
other characteristics would constitute a danger to human life or property if it
escaped from secure quarters. DANGEROUS ANIMAL also includes any domestic,
reptile, or fowl which because of its size or vicious propensity or other
characteristic would constitute a danger to human life or property if it
escaped from secure quarters.
(Ord. 1111, passed 6-17-1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
90.01 is guilty of failure to confine animals, a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender has previously been convicted of this section, then violation of this
section is aggravated failure to keep an animal confined, a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(Ord. 1110, passed 6-17-1997)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
90.02 and/or
90.03 shall be fined not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense; and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 1111, passed 6-17-1997)
CHAPTER 91: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Grass height and noxious weeds
   
91.02   Abatement of nuisance
   
91.03   Records to be filed with the County Auditor
   
91.04   Keeping weeds down
Trees
   
91.15   Species to be planted
   
91.16   Spacing
   
91.17   Distance from curb and sidewalk
   
91.18   Distance from street corners and fire plugs
   
91.19   Utilities
   
91.20   Public tree care
   
91.21   Tree topping
   
91.22   Pruning, corner clearance
   
91.23   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
91.24   Removal of stumps
   
91.25   Interference with Village Tree Commission
   
91.26   Trees in new subdivisions
   
91.27   Removal or mutilation of trees
   
91.28   Arborists license and bond
   
91.29   Review by Village Council
   
91.30   Removed trees
   
91.31   Damage to sidewalks
   
91.32   Definitions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 94
   Flood damage prevention, see
Ch. 152
   Tree Commission, see
Ch. 30
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 GRASS HEIGHT AND NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (A)   Upon information that noxious weeds, as defined by the state’s
Director of Agriculture, are growing on lands within the village and are about
to spread or mature seeds, that brush or brush piles or unlicensed vehicles are
located on lands within the village, or that grass eight inches or more in
height is growing on lands within the village, the Village Council, if it
determines that the growth of noxious weeds and/or grass or the piles of brush
or unlicensed vehicle or vehicles in that location constitutes a health hazzard
and/or nuisance to the occupants of neighboring property, shall cause a written
notice to be posted upon the property, notifying all persons that such health
hazzard and/or nuisance must be abated within five days after the posting of
such notice.
   (B)   The Chief of Police, a police officer, Clerk of Village Council, or a
designee of the Chief of Police or Clerk of Village Council may make posting of
the notice and a return of same to the Clerk.
(Ord. 1397, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 91.02 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   If the owner, lessee, agent, tenant, or other person having charge of
the lands mentioned in §
91.01 fails to comply with the notice required by such section, the village
shall cause such health hazzard and/or nuisance to be abated, and may employ
the necessary labor and equipment to perform the task. All expenses incurred
shall, after approval by Village Council, be paid from money in the General
Fund, not otherwise appropriated.
   (B)   Use of village labor and equipment shall be charged at the rate of
$130 per hour unless otherwise determined by resolution of Council. Damage to
village equipment caused by the abatement will also be charged.
(Ord. 1397, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 91.03 RECORDS TO BE FILED WITH THE COUNTY AUDITOR.
   (A)   Village Council shall make a written return to the County Auditor of
its action under divisions §§
91.01 and
91.02, with a statement of the charges for the services necessary, the amount
paid for the performing of such labor, the fees of the officers making service
of the notice or notices and return, and a proper description of the premises.
   (B)   Such amounts, when allowed, shall be entered upon the tax duplicate,
shall be a lien upon such lands from the date of entry, and shall be collected
as other taxes and returned to the village to the General Fund.
(Ord. 1397, passed 7-3-2007)
§ 91.04 KEEPING WEEDS DOWN.
   (A)   Any person owning or having charge of land within the municipality
shall keep such property free and clear from all noxious weeds and rank
vegetation, and shall be required to cut all such weeds and vegetation on the
lots owned or controlled by him or her.
   (B)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include, but not be limited
to:
      (1)   Any weeds such as the following:
Noxious Weeds
Buckthorn                  Musk Thistle
Canada Thistle             Oxeye Daisy
Columbus Grass             Perennial Sowthistle
Corncockle                 Poison Hemlock
Cressleaf Groundsel        Purple Loosestrife
Curly Dock                 Quackgrass
Dodder                     Russian Knapweed
Field Bindweed             Russian Thistle
French Weed                Serrated Tussock
Hairy Whitetop (Ballcress) Shatter Cane
Hedge Bindweed             Wild Carrot
Heart-Podded Hoary Cress   Wild Garlic
Horsenettle                Wild Mustard
Johnsongrass               Wild Onion
Leafy Spurge               Wild Parsnip
Mile-A-Minute Weed
 
      (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
(O.A.C. §§ 901:5-31-01 and 901:5-37-01) (Rev. 2000)
      (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties; and
      (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding eight inches.
(Ord. 1302, passed 10-19-2004)
TREES
§ 91.15 SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   The list in §
150.107(B) constitutes the official street trees species for the village. No
species other than those included in the list may be planted as street trees
without written permission of the Village Tree Commission. The list shall be
reviewed and updated annually by the Tree Commission.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 SPACING.
   The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the three species
size classes referred to in §
91.15, and no trees may be planted closer together than the following: small
trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in
special plantings designed or approved by the Tree Commission.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 DISTANCE FROM CURB AND SIDEWALK.
   The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks
will be in accordance with the three species size classes referred to in §
91.15. No trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet; and large trees,
four feet.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 DISTANCE FROM STREET CORNERS AND FIRE PLUGS.
   No street tree shall be planted closer than 35 feet from any street corner,
measured from the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street
tree shall be planted closer than 15 feet from any fireplug.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 UTILITIES.
   No street trees other than those species referred to as small trees in §
91.01 may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire or over or within five lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer
line, distribution line, or other utility
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain, and remove
trees, plants, and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
   (B)   The Village Tree Commission may remove, or cause or order to be
removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition, or which, by
reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines,
water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious
fungus, insect, or other pest.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 91.21 TREE TOPPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person, firm, or
village department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public
property.
   (B)   TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger
than three inches in diameter within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
   (C)   Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes or certain trees
under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are
impractical may be exempted from this subchapter at the determination of the
Village Tree Commission.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 PRUNING, CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the village shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct
the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection
and so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or sidewalk.
   (B)   Said owner shall remove all dead, diseased, or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
   (C)   The village shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private
property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street
from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device
or sign.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 91.23 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The village shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the village when such trees
constitute a hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which
constitute a potential threat to other trees within the village. The Village
Tree Commission will notify, in writing, the owners of such trees. Removal
shall be done by such owners at their own expense within 60 days of the date of
service of notice.
   (B)   In the event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the
village shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of
removal to the owners or cause it to be placed on their tax duplicate.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 91.24 REMOVAL OF STUMPS.
   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of
the ground to facilitate landscaping. All existing stumps at the passage of the
ordinance codified herein are the responsibility of the property owners.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 91.25 INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE TREE COMMISSION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Village Tree Commission, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivation, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removal of any street
trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this subchapter.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 TREES IN NEW SUBDIVISIONS.
   The Tree Commission shall approve the tree plan for any new subdivisions.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 91.27 REMOVAL OR MUTILATION OF TREES.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter and constitute a misdemeanor to
remove, abuse, destroy, or mutilate any tree, shrub, or plant in a public tree
lawn or any other public place, or to attach or place any rope or wire (other
than one used to support a young or broken tree), sign, poster, handbill, or
other thing to or on any tree growing in a public place, or to allow any
gaseous liquid or solid substance which is harmful to such trees to come in
contact with their roots or leaves.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
operation of pruning, treating, or removing trees within the village without
first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall be $25
annually, in advance; provided, however, that no license shall be required of
any public service endeavors. Before any license shall be issued, each
applicant shall first file evidence of possession of workman’s compensation and
of liability insurance in the minimum amount of $500,000 for bodily injury and
$500,000 property damage indemnifying the village or other person injured or
damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29 REVIEW BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The Village Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts, and
decisions of the Village Tree Commission. Any person may appeal from any ruling
or order of the Village Tree Commission to the Village Council, which may hear
the matter and make a final decision.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 91.30 REMOVED TREES.
   Disposition of removed tree and stump shall be the responsibility of the
village.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 91.31 DAMAGE TO SIDEWALKS.
   If the sidewalk is damaged during tree and stump removal, the village will
repair or replace it.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 91.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Include trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation in
public parks having individual names and in all other areas owned by the
village or to which the public has free access as a park.
   STREET TREES. Include trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation
on land which is part of the street right-of-way between the street pavement
and the owner’s property line on all streets, avenues, or ways within the
village.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
91.15 to
91.31 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction or a plea of
guilty, subject to a fine not to exceed $100. In addition, the person shall
replace any tree damaged with a size and species recommended by the Tree
Commission. The damage to each tree by noncompliance with §§
91.15 to
91.31 shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 866, passed 5-20-1986)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Health regulations
   
92.02   Enforcement
Abandoned/Junk Motor Vehicles
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Photographing and disposing of vehicle
   
92.17   Retention of records
   
92.18   Records of actions
   
92.19   Unclaimed vehicles
   
92.20   Willful abandonment
   
92.21   Junk motor vehicle; collector’s vehicle storage; notice
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The county and state health regulations are adopted by the village and
incorporated by reference as if fully set out herein, including Chapter 700,
Chapter 710, and Chapter 720 with respect to semi-public sewage regulations;
bathing area regulations; Chapter 800, Chapter 810, and Chapter 820 regarding
solid waste hauler regulations; household sewage treatment and disposal
regulations; health, safety, and sanitation regulations for structures and
vacant lots; swimming pool rules; combined park-camp rules provided for in R.C.
§§ 3733.01 to 3733.08, and O.A.C. §§ 3701-25-51 to 3701-25-75; resident camps
and day camp rules as adopted in O.A.C. Chapter 3701-25-01 through 37-1-25-23;
food service operations regulations of the state’s Department of Health as
adopted by O.A.C. Chapter 3701-21; mobile home park rules as adopted by the
state’s Department of Health; solid waste licensing and regulations as provided
for in O.A.C. §§ 3745-27 and 3745-37; regulations pertaining to marinas as set
forth in R.C. §§ 3733.21 to 3733.30, and O.A.C. §§ 3701-28-01 to 3701-28-09 of
the state’s Sanitary Code; vending machine food service operation regulations
as adopted by the state’s Department of Health. The purpose of the regulations
as aforesaid is to prescribe rules and regulations governing the general health
and sanitation of the community, including buildings, dwellings, and
appurtenant structures within the village limits.
   (B)   A complete copy of the health regulations for the county and state is
on file with the Clerk of Council and in the County Law Library. The Clerk of
Council shall make copies available for distribution to the public upon request
at the cost of said duplication.
   (C)   The village hereby adopts all amendments to the county and state
health regulations as described herein as they shall from time to time make.
Said amendments shall be on file with the Clerk of Council and in the County
Law Library.
   (D)   The Mayor is authorized to enter into a contract or contracts with the
County Commissioners under which the County Health Department will administer
the health regulations as adopted herein within the corporation limits of the
village.
(Ord. 932, passed 6-6-1989)
§ 92.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Health Department is authorized to administer and enforce the
provisions of the health regulations as adopted herein within the village.
(Ord. 932, passed 6-6-1989)
ABANDONED/JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Left on private property for more than 72 hours without the
permission of the person having the right to the possession of the property, on
a public street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway,
48 hours or longer;
      (2)   Three years old or older;
      (3)   Extensively damaged, such damage including, but not limited to, any
of the following: missing wheels; tires; motor; or transmission;
      (4)   Apparently inoperable; and
      (5)   Having a fair market value of $200 or less.
   COLLECTOR’S VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting requirements of divisions
(2), (3), and (4) of the definition for ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.
(Ord. 1006, passed 5-5-1992)
§ 92.16 PHOTOGRAPHING AND DISPOSING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   The Marshal of the village, upon notification, shall order any
abandoned junk vehicle to be photographed by any law enforcement officer of the
village. The office shall record the make of the motor vehicle, the serial
number when available, and shall also detail the damage or missing equipment to
substantiate the value of $200 or less.
   (B)   The Marshal shall thereupon immediately dispose of the abandoned junk
motor vehicle to a motor vehicle salvage dealer as defined in R.C. § 4738.01 or
a scrap metal processing facility as defined in R.C. § 4737.05 for destruction
of said motor vehicle.
(Ord. 1006, passed 5-5-1992)
§ 92.17 RETENTION OF RECORDS.
   Records and photograph of the abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be retained
by the village’s Police Department for a period of two years.
(Ord. 1006, passed 5-5-1992)
§ 92.18 RECORDS OF ACTIONS.
   (A)   Such Police Department shall execute in quadruplicate an affidavit as
prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the motor vehicle and
the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all requirements in this
subchapter have been complied with, and shall sign and file the same with the
County Clerk of Courts.
   (B)   The village’s Police Department shall retain the copy provided by the
Clerk of Courts of the affidavit and file such copy with the records and
photograph relating to the disposal of motor vehicle. Any monies arising from
the disposal of an abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be deposited into the
General Fund of the village.
(Ord. 1006, passed 5-5-1992)
§ 92.19 UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.61, any motor vehicle meeting the requirements
of §
92.15 in the definition for ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE divisions (C), (D),
and (E) which has remained unclaimed by the owner or lienholder for a period of
ten days or longer following notification as provided in this R.C. § 4513.61,
may be disposed of as provided in this section.
(Ord. 1006, passed 5-5-1992)
§ 92.20 WILLFUL ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   No person shall willfully have an abandoned junk motor vehicle as
defined in §
92.15 on private property for more than 72 hours without the permission of the
person having the right to the possession of the property, or on a public
street or other property open to the public for the purposes of vehicular
travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway,
for 48 hours or longer without notification to the Marshal of the reasons for
leaving the motor vehicle in such place.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has
been so left without permission or notification is prima facie evidence of
abandonment.
(Ord. 1006, passed 5-5-1992) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21 JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE; COLLECTOR’S VEHICLE STORAGE; NOTICE.
   (A)   Junk motor vehicle.
      (1)   For the purposes of this section, JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE means any
motor vehicle meeting the requirements of divisions (2), (3), (4), and (5) of
the definition of ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE in §
92.15 that is left uncovered in the open on private property for more than 72
hours without the permission of the person having the right to the possession
of the property, except if the person is operating a junkyard or scrap metal
processing facility licensed under authority of R.C. §§ 4737.05 to 4737.12, or
regulated under another section of the codified ordinances of the village,
unless the person having the right to the possession of the property can
establish that the motor vehicle is party of a bona fide commercial operation,
or if the motor vehicle is a collector’s vehicle.
      (2)   No person, firm, or corporation shall store a junk motor vehicle
nor collector’s vehicle on private property within the village unless it is
stored in a closed building.
   (B)   Notice. The Village Marshal shall send notice by certified mail with
return receipt requested to the person having the right to the possession of
the property on which a motor vehicle is left, that within ten days of receipt
of the notice, the junk motor vehicle either shall be covered by being housed
in a garage or other enclosed structure, or shall be removed from the property.
   (C)   Violation. No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle or
collector’s vehicle uncovered in the open for more than ten days after receipt
of a notice as provided in this section. The fact that a junk motor vehicle or
collector’s vehicle is so left is prima facie evidence of willful failure to
comply with the notice, and each subsequent period of 30 days that a junk motor
vehicle or collector’s vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1006, passed 5-5-1992) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of the health regulations as
adopted in §
92.01 herein shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. It shall be a separate
offense for each successive day the violation continues.
      (2)   Any person who neglects or refuses to obey a proper order issued by
the County Health Department or the Chief of Police for the village, or an
authorized representative of the County Health Department or the Chief of
Police, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Each day the unlawful condition
is permitted to exist after the time specified for abatement in said order
shall constitute a separate offense.
      (3)   The imposition of penalties as provided in this section shall not
preclude the Village Attorney from instituting an appropriate action to prevent
the unlawful continuance of an activity in violation of the health regulations
as adopted herein, or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to prevent
occupancy of a structure deemed unsafe or unsanitary pursuant to the terms of
the health regulations as adopted herein, or to prevent the continuance of an
illegal act, or conduct, or business or use in or about any premises.
   (C)   Whoever violates §§
92.15 to
92.21 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense; on the second
offense, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; on each
subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 932, passed 6-6-1989; Ord. 1006, passed 5-5-1992)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Sidewalks in disrepair declared a nuisance
   
93.02   Sidewalk construction permit
   
93.03   Reimbursement for sidewalk repairs
   
93.04   Sidewalk construction requirements
   
93.05   Signs and the like on village property
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 SIDEWALKS IN DISREPAIR DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   Upon notice and verification that sidewalks located in the right-of-
way are in a state of disrepair so as, in the opinion of Village Council, to
cause a danger or hindrance to pedestrian traffic, the Clerk of Council, or his
or her designee, shall cause a written notice to be served upon the owner,
lessee, agent, or tenant having charge of such land, notifying him or her of
the unsuitable condition of the sidewalk in the public right-of-way, and that
repair or replacement must be made within 60 days after service of such notice.
It is sufficient that notice be sent by ordinary U.S. Mail to the address, with
certificate of mailing, or by personally leaving a copy of the notice taped to
the front door of the property. If such owner or other person having charge of
the lands is a nonresident whose address is known, such notice shall be sent to
his or her address, by ordinary U.S. Mail, with certificate of mailing; if the
address of such person is unknown, then it shall be sufficient to publish the
notice once in the Daily Sentinel Tribune.
   (B)   If such persons receiving said notice do not repair or replace the
designated sidewalk area to the satisfaction of Village Council within 60 days
after service of such notice, then the Mayor shall cause the sidewalk to be
repaired or replaced as necessary, and shall certify the cost of such services
and labor for each parcel to Village Council annually, so that such charges can
be certified to the County Auditor to be entered upon the tax duplicate so as
to become a lien upon such lands from and after the date of the entry, and to
be collected as other taxes are collected in the county, and returned to the
village according to law.
(Ord. 1215, passed 9-4-2001)
§ 93.02 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.
   All persons who repair or replace sidewalks in the public right-of-way
within the village shall first obtain a sidewalk construction permit from the
Village Fiscal Officer. Upon receipt of the permit fee, as established from
time-to-time by the Village Council, the Fiscal Officer shall issue a permit
and advise the applicant as to the rules and specifications necessary to comply
with village sidewalk construction/repair standards.
(Ord. 1550, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 93.03 REIMBURSEMENT FOR SIDEWALK REPAIRS.
   (A)   Percentage to be reimbursed. All property owners who repair or replace
village sidewalks in whole or in part, in the village, that meet the
specifications set by the village and in agreement with the village, shall be
entitled to a 50% cost reimbursement based on the average cost per square foot
to include labor. The cost per square foot will be determined on an annual
basis by the village. The following steps must be followed:
      (1)   Permit has been obtained;
      (2)   The work has been approved by the Streets Committee and signed by
the Mayor; and
      (3)   The quoted dollar/bid amount of the work to be done has been
preapproved by the village.
   (B)   Village approval required. All property owners shall be entitled to
reimbursement from the village for sidewalks leveled by the process of “mud
jacking” done by professional means to the satisfaction of the village, shall
be 50% of the leveling cost.
   (C)   Flagstone buyback program. The homeowner has first right to such
sidewalk. If there is a desire to sell such material, the village will offer up
to $50 for each section based on its current area of coverage.
(Ord. 1552, passed 5-17-2016)
§ 93.04 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All sidewalks constructed or replaced on the public streets after the
effective date of this section shall be of concrete at least four feet wide
with the inside edge of the walk located on the property line. The walks shall
be at least four inches thick except at driveways where it shall be at least
six inches thick. Such sidewalks shall have expansion joints every 20 feet or
closer, and shall slope toward the street at a grade of one-quarter of an inch
per foot.
   (B)   All sidewalks constructed or replaced on the public streets after the
effective date of this section within the Business District, as designated by
the zoning map, shall be of concrete at least four feet wide and at least six
inches thick. Such sidewalks shall have expansion joints and shall slope toward
the street as in division (A) above.
(Ord. 999, passed 2-18-1992)
§ 93.05 SIGNS AND THE LIKE ON VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   No person shall construct any sign postings, improvements, or obstruction on
village property or upon any right-of-way, and to include village permanent
easements.
(Ord. 1544, passed 1-19-2016) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person repairing or replacing sidewalks located within the public
right-of-way without a permit, in violation of §
93.02, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Each day of said violation shall
be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
93.05 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be required to remove
such obstruction or improvements upon the request of Council through its
available means.
(Ord. 1544, passed 1-19-2016; Ord. 1550, passed 4-5-2016)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
94.01   Open burning prohibited
   
94.02   Exceptions
   
94.03   Consistent with state law
 
   
94.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 94.01 OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or allow open burning within the village limits except
as provided in §
94.02.
(Ord. 683, passed 11-21-1978) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the state’s EPA:
         (a)   Cooking for human consumption; and
         (b)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers, smudge pots, and similar occupational
needs.
      (2)   Fires allowed by divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall not be
used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum size sufficient for
their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to minimize the generation and
emission of air contaminates.
   (B)   (1)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
prior notification to the state’s EPA:
         (a)   Recognized silvacultural, range, or wildlife management
practices;
         (b)   Prevention or control of disease or pests; and
         (c)   Ceremonial purposes, ceremonial fires shall be less than five
feet by five feet in dimension and shall burn no longer than three hours.
      (2)   Fires allowed by (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)(c) above shall not be used for
waste disposal purposes, and the fuel shall be chosen to minimize the
generation and emission of air contaminates.
   (C)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the state’s EPA, provided that any conditions
specified in the permission are followed:
      (1)   Disposal of hazardous or toxic materials where the state’s EPA
determines there is no practical alternate method of disposal;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of firefighting or for research in control
of fires;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the state’s EPA; and
      (4)   Recognized agricultural or horticultural management purposes to
maintain or increase the quantity or quality of agricultural or horticultural
production.
(Ord. 683, passed 11-21-1978)
§ 94.03 CONSISTENT WITH STATE LAW.
   This subchapter is intended to be consistent with the state’s EPA
regulations and shall be so interpreted.
(Ord. 683, passed 11-21-1978)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
94.01 shall, for a first offense, be guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall,
for a second or subsequent offense, be guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. The penalty for a minor misdemeanor is a fine not to exceed $100. The
penalty for a misdemeanor of the fourth degree is a fine not to exceed $250 and
imprisonment for not more than 30 days or both.
(Ord. 683, passed 11-21-1978)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   SERVICE PROVIDERS
      
111.   ALCOHOL
CHAPTER 110: SERVICE PROVIDERS
Section
Video Service Providers
   
110.01   Fee established
   
110.02   Quarterly payments
   
110.03   Notice of fee
VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS
§ 110.01 FEE ESTABLISHED.
   The Council establishes a VSP fee that is calculated by applying a VSP fee
percentage of 5% to the video service provider’s gross revenues, as defined in
§ 1332.32(B) of the Video Law, being generally known as R.C. §§ 1332.21 to
1332.34. All video service providers and cable television operators providing
video service in the village shall apply the VSP fee percentage against gross
revenues, as defined in the Video Law.
(Ord. 1481, passed 4-5-2011)
§ 110.02 QUARTERLY PAYMENTS.
   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing service
in the village on a quarterly basis, but not sooner than 45 days nor later than
60 days after the end of each calendar quarter. (R.C. § 1332.32(A)) (Ord. 1481,
passed 4-5-2011)
§ 110.03 NOTICE OF FEE.
   The Mayor is authorized and directed to provide any video service provider
with notice of the VSP fee percentage as determined by the Council above, which
notice shall be given by certified mail, upon receipt of notice from such video
service provider that it will begin providing video service in the village
pursuant to a state-issued video service authorization.
(Ord. 1481, passed 4-5-2011)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
111.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
111.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
111.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
111.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
111.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
111.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
111.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
111.10   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
   
111.11   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
111.12   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
111.13   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
111.14   Posting of card
   
111.15   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
111.16   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
111.17   Hours of sale or consumption
   
111.18   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
111.19   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
111.20   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers
prohibited
   
111.21   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
111.22   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
111.23   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
111.24   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
111.25   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
111.26   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
111.27   Procedure when injunction violated
   
111.28   Liquor transaction scans
   
111.29   Affirmative defenses
 
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Liquor permits, see R.C. Chapter 4303
   Local option elections, see R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq.
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary, or patented. The
terms include cider and alcohol, and all solids and confections which contain
0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation,
brewing, or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES. Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin, or other distilled spirits with, or
over, carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment, as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   POD. Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant to
R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders for
beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the Division
of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating liquor, but
no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been registered
with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. The term does not include, however,
any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic area or territory
that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, that is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. The term includes cider, except as used in R.C. §§ 4301.13,
4301.421, 4301.422, 4301.432, and 4301.44, and, for purposes of determining the
rate of the tax that applies, R.C. § 4301.43(B), the term does not include
cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244)
§ 111.02 EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent the following:
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located;
   (B)   A bona fide resident of this state who is the owner of a warehouse
receipt from obtaining or transporting to the resident’s residence for the
resident’s own consumption and not for resale spirituous liquor stored in a
government bonded warehouse in this state or in another state prior to December
1933, subject to such terms as are prescribed by the Division of Liquor
Control;
   (C)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale;
   (D)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of the physician’s or dentist’s profession;
   (E)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries, or medical or educational
institutions using the alcohol for medicinal, mechanical, chemical, or
scientific purposes;
   (F)   The sale, gift, or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer’s tax;
   (G)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal, and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box, or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in the preparation
or solution;
   (H)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary, or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes;
   (I)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with other substances as to make it unfit for internal use;
   (J)   The manufacture, sale, and transport of ethanol or ethyl alcohol for
use as fuel. As used in this division, ETHANOL has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 122.075;
   (K)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of nonbeverage food products under
terms prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms prescribed by the
Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or intoxicating liquor to any
person, firm, or corporation purchasing and importing it into this municipality
or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder for that use;
   (L)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, 4.5 liters of wine, or 288 ounces of beer in any 30-day
period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the resident or member
of the Armed Forces physically possesses and accompanies the spirituous liquor,
wine, or beer on returning from a foreign country, another state, or an insular
possession of the United States;
   (M)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor that have unbroken federal tax stamps on
them from selling or trading the bottles to other collectors. The bottles shall
originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally imported
under division (L) above, or legally imported pursuant to a supplier
registration issued by the Division. The sales shall be for the purpose of
exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and shall
not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption. The sale or exchange authorized by this division shall not occur
on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection with the
business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection with any
mercantile business;
   (N)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent, or political purpose,
but shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or
gain of any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (O)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
(R.C. § 4301.20)
§ 111.03 RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated at a
table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating liquor so
served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest. A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements.
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card, or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom.
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with R.C. § 4301.22, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling, restocking,
and replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet.
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) above.
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to division (A)(2) of this section shall post on the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
   The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be removed from
the premises.
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to R.C. § 4303.271.
The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age, and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this section; and
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. §§
5502.13 through 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the state Liquor Control
Commission.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.62(C)(8), the seller
shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or intoxicating liquor so sold
from the premises.
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) above shall provide a registered guest with the opportunity to
refuse to accept a key, magnetic card, or other similar device necessary to
obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet in that guest room. If a registered guest refuses to accept such key,
magnetic card, or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess any charges
on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet in that guest room.
(R.C. § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 111.04 RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales. Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under all
classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the state
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked, or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   Except as provided in division (A)(1)(d) of this section, all of
the following apply to the handling, serving, and selling of beer and
intoxicating liquor by a person employed by a permit holder:
            1.   No person under 19 years of age shall sell beer across a bar.
            2.   No person under 21 years of age shall sell wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor across a bar.
            3.   No person under 18 years of age shall otherwise handle, serve,
or sell beer or intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   Any person employed by a permit holder may handle beer or
intoxicating liquor in sealed containers in connection with manufacturing,
storage, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading, and
may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in open containers in connection with
cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   (a)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale; or
            2.   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded
an agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
         (b)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
      (4)   (a)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or
intoxicating liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit
holder’s business. However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that
also has been issued an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c, or D permit holder
may provide to a paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples
of beer, wine, or spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in
any 24-hour period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting samples free of
charge, at the permit holder’s expense, only to a person who is 21 years of age
or older. The person shall consume the tasting samples on the premises of the
permit holder. A distributor is not responsible for the costs of providing
tasting samples authorized under this division (A)(4).
         (b)   As used in this division (A)(4):
            TASTING SAMPLE. One of the following, as applicable:
               a.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
               b.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine; or
               c.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous
liquor.
            D PERMIT HOLDER. A person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-2x, D-
3, D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j,
D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6, or D-7 permit.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit
holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed
retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are
situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are
a part, any sign, illustration, or advertisement bearing the name, brand name,
trade name, trademark, designation, or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production, or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations, or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark,
designation, or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer,
distributor, place of manufacture, production, or distribution of beer or
intoxicating liquor may be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the
interior or in the show windows of any licensed premises, if the particular
brand or type of product so advertised is actually available for sale on the
premises at the time of that display. The Liquor Control Commission shall
determine by rule the size and character of those signs, illustrations, or
advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer’s name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
      (7)   The sale of gift certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or
mixed beverages shall be permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed
beverages for on- or off-premises consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift
certificate for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on- or off-
premises consumption may be expressed by clearly stamping or typing on the face
of the certificate that the certificate may not be used for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) not modified or affected. The provisions of R.C. §§
4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially equivalent municipal ordinances,
shall not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) of this section or R.C.
§ 4301.22(A).
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(3) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(2) above is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H))
Statutory reference:
    Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 111.05 PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import, or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use, or sale, unless the person has fully complied with R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event, or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders, or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. An organization described under section 501
(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and exempt from federal income taxation
under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         FUNDRAISER. Means a raffle, silent auction, or event where a door
prize is awarded.
         POLITICAL ORGANIZATION. Means a political organization defined under
section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         RAFFLE. Means a raffle conducted in accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915.
         SILENT AUCTION. Means a method of submitting bids in writing by one or
more persons and, after a review of all the bids received, personal property is
awarded to the highest and most responsive bidder.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the Ohio Division of Liquor
Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or
intoxicating liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division
authorized to manufacture such beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture
any beer or intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous
liquor.
      (3)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I, or S permit issued by the
Division, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer, intoxicating
liquor, or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the Division or the
Tax Commissioner authorized to sell such beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol,
shall sell, keep, or possess beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol for sale to
any persons other than those authorized by R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 to
purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or sell any alcohol at retail.
      (4)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is the holder of a permit issued by the Division, shall sell, keep, or
possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the Division or
from the holder of a permit issued by the Division authorizing the sale of such
intoxicating liquor unless the same has been purchased with the special consent
of the Division. The Division shall revoke the permit of any person convicted
of a violation of division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
         (a)   The sale or possession for sale of any low-alcohol beverage;
         (b)   Beer and intoxicating liquor that is given away if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The beer or intoxicating liquor is given away by a charitable
or political organization to a participant in a fundraiser.
            2.   Any beer, wine, or mixed beverages given away via the
fundraiser is purchased from a person issued a permit under R.C. Chapter 4303.
            3.   Any spirituous liquor given away via the fundraiser is
purchased from an agency store located in this state.
            4.   Regarding any spirituous liquor donated to the charitable or
political organization for purposes of the fundraiser, the donor is not an
agency store located in this state and submits to the charitable or political
organization receipts showing that the donor purchased the spirituous liquor
from an agency store located in this state.
            5.   The charitable or political organization submits purchase
receipts for the spirituous liquor given away via a fundraiser to the Division
of Liquor Control as proof that the spirituous liquor was purchased from an
agency store located in this state. The charitable or political organization
shall submit the receipts in accordance with procedures that the Division shall
establish.
(R.C. § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty. Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 111.06 ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in this municipality. This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol, or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol, or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol purchased
from the Department or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(R.C. § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 111.07 OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. Means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) below, in a state liquor
store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) or (J) of this section, on the
premises of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, while operating or
being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) below, while being in or
on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, D-9, E, F,
F-2, F-5, F-7, F-8, or F-9 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, A-2f, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a
farmers market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for
consumption on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission; and
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
         (f)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed in an outdoor area
described in R.C. § 4303.188(B)(1).
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) above:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. A concert comprised of a group of not fewer
than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. An outdoor performing arts center
that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
above if the person with supervision and control over the performance grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the F-9 permit
holder grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or
intoxicating liquor in certain predesignated areas of the premises during the
period for which the F-9 permit is issued.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in this division (C)(6)(a):
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply.
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. § 4301.82 if the opened container
of beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-
2f, D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply.
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   This division (C)(7) does not authorize a person to do either of
the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere; or
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in this division (C)(7), “D class permit holder” does
not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises; and
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in division (C)(8) of this section, MARKET means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with; and
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) above is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or, if the
motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in an area
not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily accessible by
the driver.
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) below, this section does not apply to a person who, pursuant to
a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial quadricycle when
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking;
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
         (c)   The person has in his or her possession on the commercial
quadricycle an opened container of beer or wine; and
         (d)   The person has in his or her possession on the commercial
quadricycle not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements.
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in this division (G), MARKET means an establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet; and
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(R.C. § 4301.62)
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
   (J)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of homemade beer or wine that is served in
accordance with R.C. § 4301.201(E).
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 111.08 UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 111.09 PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person’s
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) above that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G)
above.
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) above shall be fined not less than
$25 nor more than $100. The court imposing a fine for a violation of division
(B) above may order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at
a reasonable hour rate established by the court. The court shall designate the
time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 111.10 ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) above is guilty of misdemeanor of
the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring within a
period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) above is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 111.11 MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age, or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 111.12 MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If, in committing a first violation of division (A) above,
the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a
false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not more than
$1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six
months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver’s
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver’s license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver’s
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also may impose a
class six suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension or denial remain in
effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The court, in lieu of
suspending the offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s
license, or driver’s license, instead may order the offender to perform a
determinate number of hours of community service, with the court determining
the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender
shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
§ 111.13 SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician’s practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian. In proceedings before the Liquor Control Commission,
no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder, charged with a
violation of this division shall be charged, for the same offense, with a
violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person’s parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person’s possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor. An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee’s acts
or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person; and/or
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place. No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. The
prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person knowingly
possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or intoxicating
liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse
who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or intoxicating
liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the physician’s practice
or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) above
in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the child into a
diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in abeyance
pending successful completion of the diversion program. A child is ineligible
to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child previously
has been diverted pursuant to this division. If the child completes the
diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the
complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under R.C. §§
2151.356 through 2151.358. If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) above, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense, except that a
person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the person previously
has been diverted pursuant to divisions (E)(2)(a) above or this (E)(2)(b). If
the person completes the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court,
the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the record in the case sealed
under R.C. § 2953.33. If the person fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
      HOTEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
      LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      MINOR. Means a person under the age of 18 years.
      PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Means a person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect
divisions (A) through (H) above or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C), (D), or (F) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If an offender who violates division (E)(1) of
this section was under the age of 18 years at the time of the offense and the
offense occurred while the offender was the operator of or a passenger in a
motor vehicle, the court, in addition to any other penalties it imposes upon
the offender, shall suspend the offender’s temporary instruction permit or
probationary driver’s license for a period of not less than six months and not
more than one year. If the offender is 15 years and six months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months. If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and six months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and, in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
Statutory reference:
   Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see R.C. § 4301.691
§ 111.14 POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display, at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the cost
of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating liquor
in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or other
identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or imprisonment up
to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the cost
of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine that
contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one per cent of alcohol by
volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the name, age,
or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or to
imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card. No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card. No permit issued by the Department
shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit
holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637) Penalty, see §
111.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.121
§ 111.15 GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card as defined
in R.C. § 4301.61, a military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense, or a United States or foreign passport, that displays a
picture of the individual for whom the license, card, or passport was issued
and shows that the person buying was then at least 21 years of age if the
person was buying beer as defined in R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating liquor, or
that the person was then at least 18 years of age if the person was buying any
low-alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way; and
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age.
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) above is in addition to the
affirmative defense provided by §
111.29.
(R.C. § 4301.639(A), (C))
§ 111.16 CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle. This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 111.17 HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-
1, D-2, D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-
1, F-2, F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder from Monday to
Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30 a.m. and on Sunday between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless statutorily authorized
otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   (1)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be
sold or delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-
5B, D-5C, D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G, D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-
7 permit holder from Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m. and on Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight, unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (2)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(B) or (C) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (B) above,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. § 4301:1-1-49)
   (F)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent, or employee of such permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (G)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit. This division imposes strict liability on
the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent, or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (H)   Whoever violates divisions (F) or (G) above is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D)) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.18 OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety, or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold, or given away.
(R.C. § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 111.19 ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(R.C. § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 111.20 SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled, or partly refilled.
(R.C. § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 111.21 KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN VIOLATION
OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished, or given away in violation of law. The court, on conviction
for a subsequent violation of this section, shall order the place where the
beer or intoxicating liquor is sold, furnished, or given away to be abated as a
nuisance or shall order the person so convicted to give bond payable to the
state in the sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that
the person will not sell, furnish, or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in
violation of law and will pay all fines, costs, and damages assessed against
the person for that subsequent violation of this section. The giving away of
beer or intoxicating liquors, or any other device to evade this section,
constitutes unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4301.01.
   (C)   Division (A) above does not apply to any premises for which a permit
has been issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 while that permit is in effect.
(R.C. § 4399.09)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4399.99(B))
§ 111.22 INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange, or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(R.C. § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(R.C. § 4399.99(C))
§ 111.23 USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) below, no person
who is the proprietor of, or who conducts, manages, or is in charge of any
public dance hall shall allow the use of any intoxicating liquor or the
presence of intoxicated persons in the public dance hall or on the premises on
which it is located.
      (2)   The prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor
contained in division (A)(1) above does not apply to establishments that are
holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, or D-5 permit whose principal business
consists of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club, or a nightclub, all as
defined in R.C. § 4301.01.
(R.C. § 4399.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(D))
§ 111.24 POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous
liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer used or intended for drink or medicinal or
mechanical purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, opium, alum, capsicum,
copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar of lead, aloes,
glucose, tannic acid, or any other substance that is poisonous or injurious to
health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the manufacture of
the spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer, or sell, offer, or keep for
sale spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer that is so adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) below, a person
convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and expenses
incurred in inspecting and analyzing spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or
beer that is so adulterated, sold, kept, or offered for sale.
(R.C. § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(E))
§ 111.25 TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication, or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(R.C. § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(R.C. § 4399.99(A))
§ 111.26 NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(R.C. § 4303.40)
§ 111.27 PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in R.C. §
3767.01(C)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall obey
the injunction. If the person violates the injunction, the court, or in
vacation a judge thereof, may summarily try and punish the violator. The
proceedings for punishment for contempt shall be commenced by filing with the
Clerk of the Court from which the injunction issued, information under oath
setting out the alleged facts constituting the violation, whereupon the court
shall cause a warrant to issue under which the defendant shall be arrested. The
trial may be had upon affidavits, or either party may demand the production and
oral examination of the witnesses.
(R.C. § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 111.28 LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section and §
111.29:
      CARD HOLDER. Any person who presents a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or employee
of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under divisions (a) or
(b) of the definition for TRANSACTION SCAN in this section.
      IDENTIFICATION CARD. An identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 or an equivalent identification card issued by another state.
      PERMIT HOLDER. The holder of a permit issued under R.C. Chapter 4303.
      TRANSACTION SCAN. The process by which a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol
beverage;
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
      TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (a)
or (b) of the definition for TRANSACTION SCAN in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) above fails to match the information printed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) above does not preclude a permit holder or an agent
or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale beer, intoxicating
liquor, or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission to a premises
described in the definition for TRANSACTION SCAN in this section.
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b), R.C. § 2925.57(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b),
and R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b); and
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
R.C. §§ 2925.57, 2925.58, 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61, and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder; and
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) above, except for purposes of
R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (a) or (b) of the definition for TRANSACTION SCAN in this section;
and
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including, but not limited to, selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or another section of this code
or the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other
applicable local, state, or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) above is guilty of an illegal
liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 4301.61)
§ 111.29 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent, or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor,
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card;
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid; and
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A)
above, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of record
shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of R.C. §§ 4301.22(A)(1)
or (A)(2), 4301.63 through 4301.636, 4301.69, and 4301.691, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances. For purposes of division (A)(3)
above, the Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable reliance
upon the identification presented and the completed transaction scan may
require a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to exercise
reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a transaction scan
device does not excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit
holder from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older; and
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) above is in addition
to the defense provided by R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) above
is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar who issued an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 through 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records of that issuance in lieu of the
testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of Motor Vehicles
in the hearing or action.
(R.C. § 4301.611)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Director to be notified of court decision regarding permit holder,
employee, or agent, see R.C. § 4301.991
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Ohio Basic Code adopted
   
130.02   Payment of cost of confinement
Curfew
   
130.15   Curfew for minors
   
130.16   Responsibility of the guardian
   
130.17   Police authority
   
130.18   Assistance for children in certain situations
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 OHIO BASIC CODE ADOPTED.
   Title_XIII of the Ohio Basic Code is adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
§ 130.02 PAYMENT OF COST OF CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a criminal offense, other than a minor
misdemeanor, and who, as a consequence thereof, is confined in the county jail,
shall reimburse the village for its expenses incurred by reason of his or her
confinement, including, but not limited to, the expenses relating to the
providing of food, clothing, medical care, and shelter.
   (B)   Village legal counsel is authorized to institute any appropriate civil
suit for the recovery of the expenses referred to in division (A) above, the
amount of the reimbursement to be determined by the court pursuant to R.C. §
2929.37(a).
(Ord. 853, passed 11-19-1985)
CURFEW
§ 130.15 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No juvenile 15 years of age or younger shall remain in or upon any
public place or any establishment between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day, municipal time, except that on Friday and Saturday nights, the
hours shall be from 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of the following day unless
exempted under division (D) below.
   (B)   No juvenile 16 and 17 years of age shall remain in or upon a public
place or any establishment between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, municipal time, except that on Friday and Saturday nights, the hours shall
be from 12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m. the following day unless exempted under
division (D) below.
   (C)   (1)   This section shall not apply to any juvenile who is accompanied
by his or her parent, guardian, or sibling older than 21 years of age unless
exempted under division (D) below.
      (2)   This section does not apply to any juvenile with a writing carried
on his or her person, is carrying out any errand or other legitimate business
pursuant to written directions of a parent, guardian, or adult person in charge
of that juvenile, nor to any juvenile engaged in lawful, gainful employment
during the curfew hours.
   (D)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of the next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 1440, passed 1-20-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 RESPONSIBILITY OF THE GUARDIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone having the legal care and custody of any
person, as described above, to allow or permit such person to go or be upon any
public street, alley, or other public place in the village in the nighttime as
restricted in §
130.15, except in the case of necessity.
(Ord. 1065, passed 8-15-1995) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 POLICE AUTHORITY.
   Every member of the police force, while on duty, is hereby authorized to
detain any such minor willfully violating the provisions of §
130.15 until the parent or guardian of the child shall take him or her into
custody, but such officer shall immediately, upon taking custody of the child,
communicate with the parent or guardian.
(Ord. 1065, passed 8-15-1995)
§ 130.18 ASSISTANCE FOR CHILDREN IN CERTAIN SITUATIONS.
   If it shall appear that any child taken into custody for a violation of §
130.15 is growing up in vagrancy, is incorrigible, is being neglected, or has
no home, proper proceedings shall be instituted in the county juvenile court as
provided by statute.
(Ord. 1065, passed 8-15-1995)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of §§
130.15 or
130.16 shall be a minor misdemeanor upon the first such offense, and a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree upon the second such offense within a one-year
period.
(Ord. 1065, passed 8-15-1995)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Title
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   Administration
   
150.004   Jurisdiction
   
150.005   Conflict of law
   
150.006   Amendments
   
150.007   Interpretation
   
150.008   Definitions
Procedure for Subdivision Approval
   
150.020   Procedures
   
150.021   Preapplication/conceptual meeting
   
150.022   Preapplication/conceptual sketch content
   
150.023   Preapplication/conceptual sketch filing
   
150.024   Preapplication/conceptual plan approval by Planning Commission
   
150.025   Preliminary drawing required
   
150.026   Application for preliminary plan approval
   
150.027   Preliminary plat/drawing form
   
150.028   Preliminary drawing contents
   
150.029   Supplementary information
   
150.030   Filing of preliminary plan and receipt by Planning Commission
   
150.031   Responsible authority review
   
150.032   Public hearing
   
150.033   Approval of preliminary drawing
   
150.034   Approval period
   
150.035   Preliminary plat/drawing recall
   
150.036   Final plat required
   
150.037   Application for approval of final plat
   
150.038   Regulations governing improvements
   
150.039   Final plat form
   
150.040   Final plat contents
   
150.041   Filing of final plat and receipt by Planning Commission
   
150.042   Approval of final plat
   
150.043   Recording of final plat
   
150.044   Minor subdivision (lot splits)
   
150.045   Requirements for submission of minor subdivision
Subdivision Design Standards
   
150.060   General statement
   
150.061   Conformity to development plans and zoning
   
150.062   Suitability of land
   
150.063   Street design
   
150.064   Street design standards for cul-de-sacs and loop type local streets
   
150.065   Street design standards for all local streets except cul-de-sacs and
loop type streets
   
150.066   Collector street design standards
   
150.067   Horizontal alignment
   
150.068   Vertical curves
   
150.069   Intersection design standards
   
150.070   Special street types
   
150.071   Streets for commercial subdivisions
   
150.072   Streets for industrial subdivisions
   
150.073   Sidewalks
   
150.074   Blocks
   
150.075   Lots
   
150.076   Site grading
   
150.077   Easements
   
150.078   Storm drainage
   
150.079   Park land
   
150.080   Public use and service areas
Requirements for Construction of Improvements
   
150.095   Guarantee for installation of improvements
   
150.096   Construction procedure and materials
   
150.097   Monuments, markers, and pins
   
150.098   Street improvements
   
150.099   Street width
   
150.100   Street subgrade
   
150.101   Street pavement
   
150.102   Curbs, curb and gutters
   
150.103   Sidewalks
   
150.104   Driveways
   
150.105   Street naming, street name signs, and traffic control signs
   
150.106   Street and walkway lighting
   
150.107   Street trees
   
150.108   Utilities generally
   
150.109   Water supply improvements
   
150.110   Sanitary sewer improvements
   
150.111   Drainage improvements
   
150.112   Storm sewer outlets and storm water drainage
   
150.113   Culverts and bridges
   
150.114   Electric, gas, cablevision, and telephone improvements
   
150.115   Over-size and off-site improvements
   
150.116   Cost of over-size improvements
   
150.117   Extensions to boundaries
   
150.118   Off-site extensions, improvements, and/or replacements
   
150.119   Final inspection
Revisions; Enforcement
   
150.130   Recoding of plat
   
150.131   Revision of plat after approval
   
150.132   Sale of land within subdivisions
   
150.133   Schedule of fees, charges, and expenses
   
150.134   Variances
   
150.135   Appeal
   
150.136   Sample forms
 
   
150.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Summary of procedural guidelines for development approval
   
Appendix B:   Design criteria
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
“Subdivision Regulations of the Village of Pemberville”, and shall hereinafter
be referred to as “these regulations”.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Land subdivision is the first step in the process of community
development. Once land has been divided into streets, lots, and blocks and
publicly recorded, the correction of defects is costly and difficult.
Subdivision of land sooner or later becomes a public responsibility in that
roads and streets must be maintained and various public services customary to
urban areas must be provided. The welfare of the entire community is thereby
affected in many important respects. It is, therefore, to the interest of the
public, the developer, and the future owners that subdivisions be conceived,
designed, and developed in accordance with sound rules and proper minimum
standards.
   (B)   The major thoroughfare plan and the following standards guiding the
Planning Commission are designed to provide for the harmonious development of
the area; to secure a coordinated layout and adequate provision for traffic;
and also to secure adequate provision for light, air, recreation,
transportation, water, drainage, sewer, and other sanitary facilities.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.003 ADMINISTRATION.
   These regulations shall be administered by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.004 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations shall be applicable to all subdivisions of land within the
village corporation limits. The Planning Commission shall have the power of
final approval of development plans for all plats. Responsibility for final
plat approval and acceptance involving dedication of road right-of-way and/or
utilities, shall rest solely with the Village Council and as further defined by
village ordinances.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.005 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   The provisions of these regulations shall supplement any and all laws of the
state, village ordinances, or any and all rules and regulations promulgated by
authority of such law or ordinance relating to the purpose and scope of these
regulations. Whenever the requirements of these regulations are at variance
with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules, regulations,
ordinances, or resolutions, the most restrictive, or that imposing the higher
standards, shall govern.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.006 AMENDMENTS.
   These regulations may be amended after public hearings and other
requirements as specified in the appropriate sections of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.007 INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of these regulations, certain terms or words used herein
shall be interpreted as follows:
   (A)   PERSON includes a FIRM, ASSOCIATION, ORGANIZATION, PARTNERSHIP, TRUST,
COMPANY, or CORPORATION, as well as an individual;
   (B)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural and the plural number includes the singular;
   (C)   SHALL is a mandatory requirement, MAY is a permissive requirement, and
SHOULD is a preferred requirement;
   (D)   USED or OCCUPIED include the words “intended, designed, or arranged to
be used or occupied”;
   (E)   LOT includes PLOT or PARCEL; and
   (F)   BUILDING includes STRUCTURE.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    ALLEY. See THOROUGHFARE.
   BLOCK. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways,
public streets, railroad right-of-way, parks, streams, lakes or bodies of
water, or a combination of these bounds.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, possessions, or property.
   BUILDING LINE. The front yard setback line at/upon which the front line of a
single or duplex dwelling unit must be placed in a residential subdivision.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Village of Pemberville.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A plan, or any portion thereof, adopted by
the Planning Commission and Village Council showing the long-range plan for the
desirable use of land in the area, the general location, and extent of present
and proposed physical facilities including housing, industrial and commercial
uses, major streets, parks, schools, and other community facilities. The
purpose of such PLAN being, among other purposes, to serve as a guide in future
development and zoning for the community. This PLAN also establishes the goals,
objectives, and policies of the community. The COMPREHENSIVE PLAN could also be
referred to as the LAND USE PLAN.
   CONCEPTUAL PLAN. An informal drawing which shows a developer’s intentions
for subdivision or development of property and which gives sufficient site
information for Planning Commission and/or Council to offer suggestions for
site development.
   CONDOMINIUM. An estate in real property consisting of an undivided interest
in common with other purchases in a portion of a parcel of real property,
together with a separate interest in space in a residential building such as an
apartment. A CONDOMINIUM may include, in addition, a separate interest in other
portions of such real property.
   CORNER LOT. See LOT TYPES.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Pemberville.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The County Engineer of Wood County, Ohio.
   COVENANT. A written promise or pledge.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See THOROUGHFARE.
   CULVERT. A transverse drain that channels water under a bridge, street, or
driveway.
   CURB LEVEL. The officially established grade of the curb in front of the
mid-point of the lot.
   DEAD-END STREET. See THOROUGHFARE.
   DENSITY. A unit of measurement; the number of dwelling units per acre of
land.
      (1)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of the total
land to be developed (including public right-of-way).
      (2)   NET DENSITY. The number of dwelling units per acre of land when the
acreage involved includes only the land devoted to residential uses (excluding
public right-of-way).
   DENSITY, HIGH RESIDENTIAL. Land to be utilized for residential purposes,
including public housing and industrialized units, which have more than eight
dwelling units per gross acre.
   DENSITY, LOW RESIDENTIAL. Land to be utilized for residential purposes,
including public housing and industrialized units, which do not exceed four
dwelling units per gross acre.
   DENSITY, MEDIUM RESIDENTIAL. Land to be utilized for residential purposes,
including public housing and industrialized units, which have more than four
dwelling units per gross acre and do not exceed eight dwelling units per gross
acre.
   DEVELOP. To make a development; also to do any grading or filling of land,
whether developed or already subdivided, so as to change the drainage or the
flow of water, or to do any work upon the land that is capable of serving as a
subdivision or development of building sites in the future.
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, subdivider, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership, corporation, trust, or any other legal entity commencing
proceedings under these regulations to effect a subdivision of land hereunder
for himself, herself, or for another.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   DRAWING. The map drawing or chart on which the developer’s plan of
subdivision is presented to the Planning Commission for conceptual and/or
preliminary approval, after such approval(s), or in concurrence with either
submittal, the final plat may be prepared for submission.
   DRIVEWAY. A vehicular travel way used to provide access from a street to
dwelling units or commercial or industrial activities. DRIVEWAYS are designed
for low travel speeds and are often used as, or are integral with, parking
areas for vehicles.
   DWELLING UNIT. Space, within a building, comprising living, dining, sleeping
room or rooms, storage closets, as well as space and equipment for cooking,
bathing, and toilet facilities, all used by only one family and its household
employees, and having its own means of entrance which can be distinguished from
other dwellings.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of the subject property.
   ENGINEER. Any person registered to practice professional engineering in the
State of Ohio by the State Board of Registration as specified in R.C. Chapter
4733.
   ENVIRONMENTAL AUDIT or SITE ASSESSMENT. A survey of potential contamination
of a site from previous or current activity on that site or adjacent property.
The purpose is to clear a site of potential village liability as it relates to
existing or future right-of-way, easements, or dedicated park land, or to
recommend additional phases of investigation to verify these liability issues.
This survey is performed by a firm or individual specializing in ENVIRONMENTAL
AUDITS or SITE ASSESSMENTS.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A standard applied in determining the location
of floodway limits so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows. This is determined
by considering the hydraulic conveyance of the floodplain along both sides of a
stream for significant reach.
   EROSION CONTROL. See STORM WATER PERMIT.
   FINAL PLAT. The final map, drawing, or chart of a subdivision prepared in
conformance with the requirements of the regulations and suitable for recording
by the County Recorder.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream level that results in inundation of areas
not ordinarily covered by water.
   FLOOD STAGE. The highest point at which flood waters have risen in the
specific area in question. If the responsible authority is unable to determine,
it shall be the duty of the Village Council to so determine.
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which are expected to be
flooded as a result of a severe combination of hydrological conditions.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains which are reasonably required to carry any discharge of the
regional flood.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the regulatory floodplain outside of the
floodway.
   GRADE. The amount of rise or descent of a sloping land surface, usually
measured as a percent where the numbered percent represents the amount of
vertical rise or fall, in feet, for every 100 feet horizontally. For example, a
one foot vertical rise over 100 horizontal feet represents a 1% slope.
   GRADE, FINISHED. The completed surfaces of lawns, walks, and roads brought
to grades as shown on village approved plans or designs relating thereto.
   HIGHWAY OR TRANSPORTATION DIRECTOR. The Director of the Ohio Department of
Transportation.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Street pavement or resurfacing, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
water lines, sewer lines, storm drains, street lights, flood control and
drainage facilities, utility lines, landscaping, and other related items/
matters normally associated with the development of raw land into building
sites.
   LAND USE PLAN. See COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   LINE, STREET. The dividing line between the street and lot, also referred to
as the RIGHT-OF- WAY LINE.
   LOCATION MAP. See VICINITY MAP.
   LOT. A parcel of land of sufficient size to meet minimum zoning requirements
for use, coverage, and area, and to provide such yards and other open spaces as
are herein required. Such LOT shall have frontage on an improved public street
and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of a lot of record; and
      (3)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be construed to be the portion
nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard requirements on corner
lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered FRONTAGE and yards shall be provided as indicated under YARDS in
this section.
   LOT LINES. Any line dividing one lot from another.
   LOT MEASUREMENTS. Include the following:
      (1)   DEPTH. A mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line, measured in a general direction parallel with its side lot
lines. Unless otherwise specified, length shall be measured from the right-of-
way of the street. LOT LENGTH and LOT DEPTH have the same meaning; and
      (2)   WIDTH. The distance between the lines connecting front and rear lot
lines at each side of the lot, measured at the building setback line; provided,
however, that the distance measured between the side lot lines where they
intersect with the street line shall not be less than 80% of the required
width.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF. The area of a lot is computed exclusive of any portion
of the right-of- way of any public street.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT TYPES. Terminology used in these regulations with reference to corner
lots, interior lots, and through lots is as follows.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot located at the intersection of two or more
streets. A lot abutting on a curved street or streets shall be considered a
CORNER LOT if straight lines drawn from the foremost points of the side lot
lines to the foremost point of the lot meet an interior angle of less than 135
degrees. A corner lot shall be considered to have two front yards with the
location of the rear yard to be determined by Planning Commission, generally
opposite the minor street.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street.
      (3)   REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT. A lot on which frontage is at right angles
to the general pattern in the area. A REVERSED FRONTAGE LOT may also be a
corner lot.
      (4)   THROUGH LOT. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets. THROUGH LOTS abutting two streets may be referred to as
double frontage lots.
   MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE. Financial security that may be accepted by a
governmental agency as a guarantee that the completed improvements required as
part of an application for development will be satisfactorily maintained for a
12-month period following completion of said improvements and acceptance by the
agency. A MAINTENANCE GUARANTEE may typically be provided in the form of a
maintenance bond, irrevocable letter of credit from a reputable financial
institution, or an escrow account, any of which are provided in favor of the
governmental agency.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The comprehensive plan recommended by the Planning
Commission and adopted by Council indicating the general location recommended
for arterial, collector, and local thoroughfares within the corporate limits.
Also could be referred to as, or could be a part of, a LAND USE PLAN.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. A division of a parcel of land that does not require a
plat to be approved by a planning authority according to R.C. § 711.131. Also
known as LOT SPLIT.
   MONUMENTS. Permanent markers used to establish definitely all subdivision
boundary line corners, points of change in centerline of street right-of-way
alignment, points of intersection of centerline of street alignments, and lot
corners. (See § 150.097 for regulations.)
   ODOT. The Ohio Department of Transportation.
   OEPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   OPEN SPACE. An area open to the sky which may be on the same lot with a
building. The area may include, along with the natural environmental features,
swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities that the
Planning Commission deems permissive. Streets, drives, sidewalks, parking
spaces, pavement stones, and structures shall not be included.
   OUT LOT. Property shown on a subdivision plat outside of the boundaries of
the land which is to be developed and which is to be excluded from the
development of the subdivision.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.
   PAD. A building site prepared by artificial means, including, but not
limited to, grading, excavation, or filling, or any combination thereof.
   PARCEL. Any area or tract of land as defined in a recorded deed description
and shown on a tax duplicate.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. For the purpose of these regulations, an off-
street parking space shall consist of an area consistent with the requirements
of the zoning code for parking an automobile, together with properly related
access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room, but shall be located
totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way.
   PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY. A right-of-way, generally ten feet in width with a four-
foot wide to five-foot wide sidewalk, which cuts across a block to facilitate
pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties. PEDESTRIAN WALKWAY,
right-of-way, and sidewalk maintenance shall be the responsibility of a
homeowner’s association, or adjacent property owner(s) if no homeowner’s
association exists.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Financial security that may be accepted by a
governmental agency as a guarantee that the improvements required as part of an
application for development will be satisfactorily completed. A PERFORMANCE
GUARANTEE may typically be provided in the form of a performance bond,
irrevocable letter of credit from a reputable financial institution, or an
escrow account, any of which are provided in favor of the governmental agency.
   PERSON. Any natural individual human being, firm, partnership, association,
or corporation. This definition does not include governmental units/entities.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land in which a variety of housing
types and/or related commercial and industrial facilities are accommodated in a
pre-planned environment under more flexible standards, such as lot sizes and
setbacks, than those restrictions that would normally apply under these
regulations. The procedure for approval of such development contains
requirements, in addition to those of the standard subdivision, such as
building design principles and landscaping plans.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Commission which controls the platting of land
within the corporate limits of the Village of Pemberville.
   PLAT. The map, drawing, or chart on which the developer’s final plan of
subdivision is presented to the Planning Commission, the Council, and other
proper reviewing agencies for approvals and, after such approvals are received,
is presented to the County Recorder for recording.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. The initial proposal, including both narrative and site
design information, intended to provide the Planning Commission with an
understanding of the manner in which the site in question is to be developed.
   PUBLIC WAY. An alley, avenue, boulevard, bridge, channel, ditch, easement,
expressway, freeway, highway, land, parkway, right-of-way, road, sidewalk,
street, subway, tunnel, viaduct, walk, or other ways in which the general
public or a public entity have a right, or which are dedicated, whether
improved or not.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe longitudinal segments of a
stream or river. A REACH will generally include the segment of the flood hazard
area where flood heights are influenced by a human-made or natural obstruction.
In a urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive
bridge crossings would typically constitute a REACH.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. The flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the area and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on a particular stream. The REGIONAL FLOOD generally has a
flood frequency of approximately 100 years as determined by analysis of floods
on a particular stream and other streams in the same general region.
   REGIONAL FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The elevation of the regional flood
plus one foot of freeboard to provide a safety factor.
   REGIONAL FLOODPLAIN. The area inundated by the regional flood (100 year
frequency flood). This is the floodplain area which shall be regulated by the
standard and criteria of this ordinance.
   REGULATIONS. Subdivision regulations for the Village of Pemberville, Wood
County, Ohio.
   REPLAT. A subdivision or plat, the site of which has heretofore been platted
or subdivided with lots or parcels of land. It may include all or any part of a
previous subdivision or plat.
   RESERVES. Parcels of land within a subdivision that are intended for future
use.
   RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY. The individual or governing body, as determined by
P.C., to be responsible for reviewing and/or approving or disapproving a
request. Note: The preceding definition is intended to replace “Zoning
Inspector” and/or “Zoning Administrator”.
   REVIEWING AGENCIES. Any person, firm, village official or department, or
governmental agency required to review existing or proposed development, uses,
or variances as directed by the Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals,
Council, or responsible authority, or as required by the Ohio Revised Code.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features,
such as grade separation, landscaped areas, viaducts, and bridges.
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by the subdivision regulations and/or
zoning ordinance, generally parallel with and measured from the lot line or
right-of-way line and defining the limits of a yard. (See YARD, FRONT; YARD,
REAR; YARD, SIDE)
   SEWERS, CENTRAL OR GROUP. An approved sewage disposal system which provides
a collection network and disposal system and central sewage treatment facility
for a single development, community, or region.
   SEWERS, ON SITE. A septic system or similar installation on an individual
lot which utilizes an aerobic bacteriological process or equally satisfactory
process for the elimination of sewage and provides for the proper and safe
disposal of the effluent, subject to the approval of health and sanitation
officials having jurisdiction.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway which is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic. (See WALKWAY.)
   SOIL REPORT. A statement of soil conditions by a qualified source.
   STORM WATER PERMIT. EPA NPDES permit required for construction sites
addressing erosion control procedures, and specifically including notice of
intent application and storm water pollution prevention plan.
   STREET. A public way which affords the principal means of vehicular access
to abutting properties.
   STREET, CENTERLINE. A line, generally parallel with and midway between two
street rights-of- way or property lines.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, shed, parking areas, driveways, paving stone area,
or any other object constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having location on the ground,
regardless if it is temporary or permanent construction. STRUCTURE shall not
include live plant materials established on a lot.
   SUBDIVIDER. See DEVELOPER.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as contiguous
units on the last preceding tax roll prior to the adoption of these
regulations, into two or more parcels, sites, or lots, any one of which is less
than five acres for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of
ownership; provided, however, that the division or partition of land into
parcels of more than five acres not involving any new streets or easements of
access, and the sale or exchange of parcels between adjoining lot owners, where
such sale or exchange does not create additional building sites, shall be
exempted; or
      (2)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial, or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division or allocation of land for the opening, widening, or extension of any
street or streets except private streets serving industrial structures; the
division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants, or lease holders, or as easements for the extension and maintenance
of public sewer, water, storm drainage, or other public facilities. (See MINOR
SUBDIVISION.)
   SURVEYOR. Any person registered to practice professional surveying in the
State of Ohio by the State Board of Registration as specified in R.C. Chapter
4733.
   TERRAIN CLASSIFICATION. Terrain within the entire area of the preliminary
plat is classified as level, rolling, hilly, or hillside for street design
purposes. The classifications are as follows.
      (1)   HILLSIDE. Land which has a cross slope range of more than 15%.
      (2)   HILLY. Land which has a cross slope range of more than 8%, but not
more than 15%.
      (3)   LEVEL. Land which has a cross slope range of 4% or less.
      (4)   ROLLING. Land which has a cross slope range of more than 4%, but
not more than 8%.
   THROUGH LOT. See LOT TYPES.
   THOROUGHFARE, STREET, or ROAD. The full width between property lines
bounding every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof, to be used
for vehicular traffic and designated as follows.
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor street used primarily for vehicular service access
to the back or side of properties abutting on another street.
      (2)   ARTERIAL STREET. A general term denoting a highway primarily for
through traffic, carrying heavy loads, and large volumes of traffic, usually on
a continuous route.
      (3)   BOULEVARD STREET. A street developed by two one-way pavements
separated by a median.
      (4)   COLLECTOR STREET. A thoroughfare, whether within a residential,
industrial, commercial, or other type of development, which primarily carries
traffic from local streets to arterial streets, including the principal
entrance and circulation routes within residential subdivisions.
      (5)   CUL-DE-SAC, INTERMEDIATE. Typically a local through street with a
vehicular turnaround placed between street intersections or at the end of a
temporary dead end street intended to be extended in the future.
      (6)   CUL-DE-SAC, TERMINATING. A local street of relatively short length
with one end open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular
turnaround.
      (7)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (8)   LOCAL STREET. A street primarily for providing access to
residential, commercial, or other abutting property.
      (9)   LOOP STREET. A type of local street, each end of which terminates
at an intersection with the same arterial or collector street, and whose
principal radius points of the 180 degree system of turns are not more than
1,000 feet from said arterial or collector street, nor normally more than 600
feet from each other.
      (10)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A local or collector street, parallel and
adjacent to an arterial or collector street, providing access to abutting
properties and protection from arterial or collector streets. (Also called
FRONTAGE STREET.)
      (11)   MINOR STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to abutting residential properties and protection from through traffic.
   TRACING. A translucent drawing on linen, Mylar, cronaflex, or equal, from
which a print can be taken directly.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   VICINITY MAP. A drawing located on the plat which sets forth, by dimensions
or other means, the relationship of the proposed subdivision, development, or
use to other nearby developments or landmarks and community facilities and
services within the county in order to better locate and orient the area in
question.
   WATERSHED. The drainage basin in which the subdivision drains or that land
whose drainage is affected by the subdivision.
   WAY. A street or alley or other thoroughfare or easement permanently
established for passage of persons or vehicles.
   WETLANDS. Areas inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency or duration sufficient to support, under normal circumstances, a
prevalence of vegetation adapted for life in saturated soil conditions. These
areas may be as defined by the Corps of Engineers, Soil Conservation Service,
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, or the Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency, and are specifically delineated by a wetlands specialist.
   YARD. An unoccupied space open to the sky, on the same lot with a building
or structure.
   YARD, FRONT. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the street right-of-
way line and the front line of the building projected to the side lines of the
lot. The depth of the FRONT YARD shall be measured between the front line of
the building and the street right-of-way line. Covered porches whether enclosed
or unenclosed, shall be considered as part of the main building and shall not
project into a required FRONT YARD.
   YARD, REAR. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main building,
extending the full width of the lot and situated between the rear line of the
lot and the rear line of the building projected to the side lines of the lot.
The depth of the REAR YARD shall be measured between the rear line of the lot,
or the centerline of the alley, if there is an alley, and the rear line of the
building.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a main or
accessory building situated between that building and the side line of the lot
and extending from the front yard to the rear yard.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
Editor’s note:
   Diagrams of different types of cul-de-sacs, types of lots, and the like can
be found in the ordinance codified herein
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 150.020 PROCEDURES.
   This section details procedures and associated requirements for making
application for the various steps in seeking subdivision approvals from the
Planning Commission. A written summary of the procedural guideline for
subdivision approval as well as a flow chart of procedures for subdivisions
approval can be found in Appendix A of these regulations.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.021 PREAPPLICATION/CONCEPTUAL MEETING.
   The developer shall meet with the Planning Commission or its designated
representative prior to submitting the preliminary plat. The purpose of this
meeting is to discuss early and informally the purpose and effect of these
regulations and the criteria and standards contained therein; and to
familiarize the developer with the comprehensive plan, the major thoroughfare
plan, the parks and public open space plan, the zoning ordinance, and the
drainage, sewerage, and water systems for the village.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.022 PREAPPLICATION/CONCEPTUAL SKETCH CONTENT.
   The developer may submit, to the Planning Commission, a sketch plan legibly
drawn at a suitable scale and containing the following information:
   (A)   The proposed subdivision in relation to existing community facilities,
thoroughfares, and other transportation modes, shopping centers, manufacturing
establishments, residential development, and existing natural and human-made
features, such as soil types, vegetation, contours, and utilities in the
neighboring area;
   (B)   The layout and acreage of streets, lots, and any nonresidential sites,
such as commercial, manufacturing, school, or recreational uses within the
proposed subdivision;
   (C)   The location of utilities in the proposed subdivision, if available,
or the locations of the nearest sources for water and public facilities for the
disposal of sewage and storm water;
   (D)   The scale and title of the subdivision, a north arrow, and the date of
plan submission for review by the village;
   (E)   Name, address, telephone number, and fax number of owners and
developers; and
   (F)   Fifteen copies of the preapplication/conceptual sketch plan shall be
submitted 21 days prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Planning
Commission in order to be placed on the agenda.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.023 PREAPPLICATION/CONCEPTUAL SKETCH FILING.
   The preapplication/conceptual sketch shall be considered officially filed on
the day it is received by the responsible authority for distribution to
Planning Commission and proper village officials/ departments for review and
shall be so dated. A filing fee shall be paid as indicated in §
150.133.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.024 PREAPPLICATION/CONCEPTUAL PLAN APPROVAL BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The purpose of the preapplication/conceptual plan review with Planning
Commission is to provide an opportunity to conceptually discuss a proposed
development and to provide general guidance to assist in the preparation of a
formal preliminary plan. All comments and suggestions shall be considered
informal by the applicant and shall not be a binding agreement with the
Planning Commission for plan approval. This preapplication/conceptual review is
a service provided to benefit the applicant, and formal development plan
approval is dependent upon the outcome of the preliminary plan review, final
plat, and construction drawing review described herein.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.025 PRELIMINARY DRAWING REQUIRED.
   After the preapplication stage, the developer shall submit a preliminary
drawing of the proposed subdivision, which shall conform with the requirements
set forth in §§
150.026 to
150.033, inclusive. The preliminary drawing shall be prepared by a qualified
engineer or surveyor.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.026 APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY PLAN APPROVAL.
   An application for approval of the preliminary plat/drawing shall be
submitted on forms provided herein, together with 15 copies of the preliminary
drawing, one reduced eight and one-half-inch by 11-inch or 11-inch by 17-inch
copy of the preliminary drawings, and the information specified in §§
150.027 to
150.030, inclusive. The application shall be submitted to the responsible
authority for distribution to the Planning Commission, the Board of Public
Affairs, the EMS, Fire and Police Chiefs, and other village officials/
departments. The preliminary plat/drawing shall be considered a part of the
application.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.027 PRELIMINARY PLAT/DRAWING FORM.
   The preliminary plat/drawing shall be legibly drawn in waterproof ink on
tracing cloth or other material of equal permanence at a scale of not more than
100 feet to the inch and shall be on one or more sheets, 24 inches by 36 inches
in size. All delineations, lettering, and signatures shall be completed using
black opaque ink. One additional reduced copy of the preliminary plat shall
also be provided, sized eight and one-half inches by 11 inches or 11 inches by
17 inches.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.028 PRELIMINARY DRAWING CONTENTS.
   The preliminary drawing shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or closely
approximate the name of any other subdivision in the village;
   (B)   Location by section, range, and township or other surveys;
   (C)   Names, addresses, phone numbers, and fax numbers of the owner(s),
subdivider(s)/ developer(s), and engineer, and surveyor who prepared the plat,
with appropriate registration numbers and seals;
   (D)   Date of survey;
   (E)   Scale of the plat (not more than 100 feet to the inch) and north
point;
   (F)   Boundaries of the subdivision and total acreage, together with
proposed plats/phases of the subdivision and associated acreages;
   (G)   Names of adjacent subdivisions, owners of adjoining parcels of
subdivided and unsubdivided land, and the approximate location of their
boundary lines;
   (H)   Locations, widths, and names of existing streets, railroad rights-of-
way, easements, parks, permanent buildings, corporation and township lines,
location of wooded areas, and other significant topographic and natural
features, all within the plat area, adjacent to the plat area, and within a
minimum distance of 200 feet of the plat area;
   (I)   Existing zoning classification and proposed use(s) of the tract to be
subdivided and the zoning classification and existing use(s) of adjoining
properties. A description of proposed zoning changes, if any, shall also be
included;
   (J)   Existing contours at an interval of not greater than two feet if the
slope of the ground is 15% or less; and not greater than five feet where the
slope is more than 15%;
   (K)   Locations and sizes of existing storm sewers, sanitary sewers,
waterlines, culverts, underground structures, including their material of
construction, and power transmission poles and lines within and adjacent to the
tract;
   (L)   Regional flood elevations and boundaries of flood-prone areas as
defined in § 441 (refer to Ordinance 1488 Flooding), including floodways, if
known;
   (M)   Location, names, and widths of proposed streets and easements;
   (N)   Building setback lines with dimensions (setback lines along curved
roadways and cul-de-sacs shall show dimension as measured along arcs);
   (O)   Location, approximate lengths, and sizes of all proposed storm sewers,
sanitary sewers, and water lines as well as the location of other utility lines
showing all connections with the existing utility systems;
   (P)   Layout, numbers, and approximate dimensions of each lot. When a lot is
located on a curved street or when side lot lines are not at 90 degree angles,
the width of the lot at the property line/right-of- way and at the front yard
setback line shall be shown;
   (Q)   Parcels of land in acres to be reserved for public use or to be
reserved by covenant for residents of the subdivision;
   (R)   Proposed fill or other structure elevating techniques, levees, channel
modifications, seawalls, and other methods to overcome flood or erosion related
hazards;
   (S)   A vicinity map at a scale of not less than 1,000 feet to the inch
shall be shown on, or accompany, the preliminary drawing. This map shall show
all existing subdivisions, roads, and tract lines and the nearest existing
thoroughfares;
   (T)   Statement of proposed use of lots, giving type and number of dwelling
units and type of business or industry;
   (U)   Location and approximate dimensions of all existing buildings;
   (V)   For commercial and industrial development, the location, dimensions,
and approximate grade of proposed parking and loading areas, alleys, pedestrian
walks, streets, and the points of vehicular ingress and egress to the
development;
   (W)   Description of proposed covenants and restrictions; and
   (X)   Fifteen copies of the preliminary plat/drawing and one reduced eight
and one-half-inch by 11-inch or 11-inch by 17-inch copy shall be submitted 21
days prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission in order to
be placed on the agenda.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.029 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   The following information shall be supplied in addition to the
requirements in §
150.028 when the proposed subdivision is located within a flood hazard area as
designated on the flood hazard boundary map in § 441 (refer to Ordinance 1488
Flooding) of these regulations. This information should be provided by the
developer’s engineer:
      (1)   Additional topographic information for areas adjoining both sides
of the channel;
      (2)   Three valley cross sections including the channel of the stream at
points specified by the Village Engineer;
      (3)   Cross sections of the land to be occupied by the proposed
development;
      (4)   High water information;
      (5)   Estimate of the discharge of the regional flood; and
      (6)   Determination of the specific flooding threat at the site of the
proposed subdivision and determination of whether the subdivision is located in
a floodway or flood fringe area by:
         (a)   Calculations of water surface elevations and flood protection
elevations based upon a hydraulic analysis of the capacity of the stream
channel and overbank areas to convey the regional flood. Flood protection
elevations shall be one foot above the water surface elevations of the regional
flood; or
         (b)   1.   Computation of the floodway required to convey this flood
without increasing flood heights to an extent which would cause substantial
upstream and/or downstream damage to existing development or reasonably
anticipated future development.
            2.   Computations of increases in flood heights caused by any
encroachment shall be based upon the reasonable assumption that there will be
an equal degree of encroachment on both sides of the stream within that reach.
Generally, any increase in flood stages attributed to encroachments on the
floodplain of any river or stream shall not exceed six inches in any one reach
or for the cumulative effect of several reaches.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall transmit this information to the Village
Engineer for technical assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed
project in relation to flood heights and velocities; evaluating the potential
for flood damage to the proposed development and the village the adequacy of
plans for protection against flood damage and other technical matters.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.030 FILING OF PRELIMINARY PLAN AND RECEIPT BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The preliminary plat/drawing application shall be considered
officially filed on the day it is received by the responsible authority for
distribution to Planning Commission and proper village officials/departments
for review and shall be so dated. A filing fee shall be paid as indicated in §
150.133.
   (B)   The preliminary plan shall be considered officially received by
Planning Commission at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning
Commission, following the date the preliminary plan was properly filed with the
responsible authority.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.031 RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY REVIEW.
   (A)   The responsible authority shall review the application for compliance
to all applicable sections of these regulations within 15 days of filing of the
application, based on the information provided in the application. If the
responsible authority finds that the application will not comply with these
regulations or the Zoning Code of the village, the responsible authority shall
provide written notification to the applicant of the discrepancies of the site
plan. If the applicant disagrees with the responsible authority’s decision or
chooses to seek a variance, he or she can appeal to the Planning Commission or
Zoning Board of Appeals, as applicable, for such relief, as described in these
regulations or §§
153.185 to
153.193, as applicable, as a separate process.
   (B)   Submission of the preliminary plat/drawing to the Planning Commission
shall not be permitted unless the responsible authority determines that the
plans are in compliance with these regulations and the zoning ordinance, or if
an appeal determination or variance has been granted from the Planning
Commission and/or the Zoning Board of Appeals as applicable.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.032 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Planning Commission on its own initiative may, or upon petition by a
citizen or neighboring property owner shall, prior to action on a preliminary
plat/drawing of a subdivision, hold a public hearing thereon at such time and
upon such notice as the Commission shall designate.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.033 APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY DRAWING.
   (A)   The responsible authority shall forward copies of the preliminary
drawing to proper village officials and departments as are indicated in §
150.026 for the purpose of study and recommendation for Planning Commission
consideration. After receipt of reports, from such officials and departments,
the Planning Commission shall determine whether the preliminary drawing shall
be approved, approved with modifications, or disapproved. If a drawing is
disapproved, the reasons for such disapproval shall be stated in writing.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary drawing within 60
days after the receipt of the preliminary plat/drawing application by the
Planning Commission unless such time is extended by agreement with the
developer. If no action is taken by the Planning Commission within 60 days of
the receipt of the preliminary plat/drawing, the preliminary plat/drawing shall
be deemed to be rejected. When a preliminary drawing has been approved by the
Planning Commission, the Chairperson shall sign all copies and return one to
the developer for compliance with final approval requirements. Approval of the
preliminary drawing shall be conditional upon compliance with all other
applicable statutes, ordinances, and regulations of the village, but will not
constitute acceptance of the final plat.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.034 APPROVAL PERIOD.
   (A)   The approval of the preliminary drawing shall be effective for a
maximum period of 12 months and shall guarantee that the terms under which the
approval was granted will not be affected by changes to these regulations
unless such changes are mandated by federal or state law. Upon written request
by the applicant, Planning Commission may consider an extension of the approval
period, provided the written request is received by the responsible authority a
minimum of 30 days prior to the expiration date of the original approval.
Expiration of any approval shall be immediate and shall be without any
notification to the applicant.
   (B)   Upon expiration of the approval period, the owner(s) and/or developer
(s) desiring to continue with any undeveloped/unimproved phase(s) of the
previously approved preliminary plat shall return to the Planning Commission to
re-file for approval. Re-filing for approval shall require resubmission of all
required information, together with payment of associated filing fees.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.035 PRELIMINARY PLAT/DRAWING RECALL.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recall unplatted portions of the
preliminary plat for consideration, reapproval, modification, or disapproval by
the Planning Commission.
   (B)   A recall may occur if:
      (1)   Incomplete, inaccurate, or fraudulent information influenced
approval;
      (2)   The subdivider/developer has failed to satisfactorily pursue
platting or conditions of approval;
      (3)   Previously unknown or new health, safety, or environmental issues/
concerns arise; and/or
      (4)   The subdivider/developer shall be notified by letter no later than
30 days before the recall is scheduled for consideration.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.036 FINAL PLAT REQUIRED.
   The developer, having received approval of the preliminary plat/drawing of
the proposed subdivision, shall submit a final plat of the subdivision and
construction drawings and specifications of the improvements required therein.
The final plat shall have incorporated all changes in the preliminary drawing
required by the Planning Commission. Otherwise, it shall conform to the
preliminary drawing, and it may constitute only that portion/phase of the
approved preliminary drawing which the developer proposes to record and develop
at the time. The final plat and any required supplementary information shall be
prepared by a qualified engineer or surveyor.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.037 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   An application for approval for the final plat shall be submitted on forms
provided herein, together with 15 copies of the plat, one reduced eight and
one-half-inch by 11-inch or 11-inch by 17-inch copy of the plat, and the
information specified in §§
150.038 to 150.041, inclusive, as well as requirements of §§
150.060 to
150.080 and
Appendix B of these regulations. The application shall be submitted to the
responsible authority for distribution to the Planning Commission, the EMS,
Fire and Police Chiefs, and other village officials/departments. The final plat
drawing and construction drawings and specifications shall be considered a part
of the application.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.038 REGULATIONS GOVERNING IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat shall include detailed construction plans and
specifications of improvements which shall be prepared and submitted 21 days
prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission in order to be
placed on the agenda. The detailed construction plans and specifications shall
include village standard construction details and specifications and be
prepared by a qualified engineer. The final plat, detailed construction plans,
and specifications shall be drawn on tracing cloth or other material of equal
permanence and shall be on one or more sheets, 24 by 36 inches in size. One
reduced copy of the final plat and detailed construction plans shall also be
provided, sized eight and one-half inches by 11 inches or 11 inches by 17
inches.
   (B)   The plans shall include typical sections, plan and profile views, site
dimension plan or final plat drawing, site grading plan, composite utility
plan, construction details, and estimates of quantities. All final detailed
plans and specifications of the improvements shall meet the approval of the
Planning Commission, the village’s engineering representative, and other state
and county agencies, where applicable, prior to commencing with the
installation of the required improvements.
   (C)   Prior to the granting of approval of the final plat, the developer
shall have installed the required improvements or shall have furnished a
performance guarantee for the amount of the estimated construction cost of the
ultimate installation plus 20% and the initial cost of maintenance of the
improvements. The cost of maintenance of the improvements shall be calculated
at 50% of the amount of the performance guarantee.
   (D)   Before the performance guarantee is accepted, it shall be approved by
the proper administrative officials. The term of the performance guarantee
shall extend 12 months beyond the anticipated completion date of the project.
Upon completion of all improvements and acceptance by Council, the performance
guarantee may be returned to the developer upon receipt of an acceptable
maintenance guarantee valid for a 12-month term.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.039 FINAL PLAT FORM.
   (A)   The final plat shall be prepared by a qualified surveyor and legibly
drawn in waterproof ink on tracing cloth or other material of equal permanence.
It shall be drawn at a scale not smaller than 100 feet to the inch and shall be
on one or more sheets, 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
   (B)   When possible, a scale of one inch equals 50 feet or larger should be
used. When more than one sheet is required, an index sheet of the same size
shall be filed showing the entire subdivision with the sheets numbered in
ascending sequential order as a key.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.040 FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   The final plat shall contain the following information.
   (A)   Identification.
      (1)   Name of subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, town, and range and other legal description as
necessary;
      (3)   Names of owner(s)/developer(s) and signature and seal of qualified
surveyor to be lettered and signed in black opaque ink;
      (4)   Scale shown graphically;
      (5)   Date; and
      (6)   North point.
   (B)   Delineation.
      (1)   All delineation shall be in black opaque ink on the tracing
(including signatures).
      (2)   Boundary of plat will be shown as a bold heavy line to indicate the
limits of the plat. All plat boundary lines will be shown with the lengths and
bearings of course. The boundaries shall be determined by an accurate survey in
the field, which will be balanced and closed with a certified error of closure
not to exceed 1 in 10,000. A computation sheet may be required to be submitted
with the plat, upon request.
      (3)   True bearings and distances shall be tied to the nearest
established street monuments and/or official monuments, which shall be
accurately described on the plat.
      (4)   Village, township, county, and/or section lines shall be shown
accurately tied to the lines of the subdivision by distances and bearings.
      (5)   Accurate location of all monuments existing or proposed (as
specified in §
150.097) shall be shown.
      (6)   Show exact location, width, and name of all streets within and
adjoining the plat and the exact location and widths of all alleys and cross
walkways. (The name of a street shall not duplicate that of any existing
street. Proposed street names shall be checked with the proper village and
county officials.)
      (7)   Show exact location and width of all easements and rights-of-way
provided for public services or utilities, with limitation of the easement
rights definitely stated on the plat.
      (8)   Show all lot or parcel numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions
in feet and hundredths.
      (9)   Show accurate designation of any areas to be dedicated or reserved
for public use, with the purpose indicated thereon.
      (10)   Show radii, internal angles, points of curvature, point of
tangency, and lengths of all curves of the subdivision boundaries and
centerlines of proposed right-of-ways.
      (11)   Indicate the estimated elevation for, and delineation of, the 100-
year floodplain or provide a marginal note indicating that the proposed
development does not lie within a 100-year floodplain.
      (12)   Show building setback lines accurately shown with dimensions.
      (13)   In case the subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, channel,
stream, or creek, the existing or prior location and/or the proposed location
of such watercourse shall have the top of bank and approximate centerline
shown.
      (14)   Provide legal description of the boundaries of the plat.
      (15)   Provide total acreage in plat, total acreage in street right-of-
way, and total acreage in lots will be shown on the plat.
      (16)   Provide copy of any restrictions and/or covenants the developer
intends to include in the deeds to the lots of the subdivision.
      (17)   Names of adjacent subdivisions, names of owners of adjoining
parcels of subdivided and unsubdivided land, and the approximate location of
their boundary lines.
      (18)   Existing zoning classification and proposed use(s) of the tract to
be subdivided and the zoning classification and existing use(s) of adjoining
properties. A description of proposed zoning changes, if any, shall also be
included.
      (19)   Two copies of an environmental site assessment report completed by
a certified/registered geotechnical consultant specializing in environmental
site assessment shall be submitted with the final plat (Phase 1 assessment
minimum).
      (20)   Two copies of a wetlands report completed by a certified/
registered geotechnical consultant specializing in wetlands assessment and/or
evaluations shall be submitted with the final plat.
      (21)   A certification by a qualified surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a true and accurate survey made by him or her. (See sample
wording for certification.)
      (22)   Private restrictions, if any, will be noted:
         (a)   Boundaries of each type of use restrictions; and
         (b)   Other private restrictions for each definitely restricted
section of the subdivision.
      (23)   Space for approval by signature of owner(s)/developer(s), village,
and county officials in accordance with the following.
         (a)   Owners certification.
   I/We, the undersigned, owners of the property hereon described, do hereby
adopt this subdivision into lots as shown, establish setback lines as shown,
(except buffer lot--which is dedicated on condition the abutting right-of-way
dedication is extended or widened beyond said buffer lot), and dedicate to
public use, rights-of-way as shown, and we do further grant easements as shown
hereon and designated as utility reservations, roadway easement, and drainage
easement.
   I/We certify that no lot will be sold or building constructed in a flood
hazard area prior to completion of all flood protective works, measures, or
improvements planned for such lot and necessary access facilities.
   I/We further certify that I/We will improve this subdivision with the
following installations: [insert statement of the specific sewer, water,
pavement, and other improvements to be installed].
   WITNESSES:                           OWNERS:
                                                                                                     
                                                                                                     
         (b)   Notary.
         State of Ohio   {'}'}
                         ss
         County of                 {'}'}
   On this           day of                              , 20           ,
before me personally appeared                                               ,
and acknowledged the signing of this plat to be his or her (their) free act and
deed for the purposes hereon mentioned.
         Witness my hand and seal the day and year first above written.
                                                                            
         Notary Public in and for                                County, Ohio
         My Commission Expires:                               
         (c)   Surveyor.
   This is to certify that at the request of the owners I have surveyed and
platted “                                                      ” as shown
hereon and containing                    acres of land in Village of
Pemberville, Freedom Township, Wood County, Ohio. Monumentation was found or
set as indicated. Distances are shown in feet and decimal parts thereof.
Bearings shown are assumed and used to describe angles only. The plat
represents a survey in which the traverse of the exterior boundaries of the
tract and of each block when computed from field measurements of the ground
closed within a limit of error of one foot to 10,000 feet of the perimeter
before balancing the survey. The survey meets the minimum standards for land
surveys, in O.A.C. § 4733-37 and adjacent property descriptions have been
considered in performing this survey. All of which I certify to be correct.
                              By
                                                                    
            (SEAL)
                              Registered Surveyor No.
                                 
         (d)   Planning Commission.
   We hereby approve and accept this plat according to the Subdivision Rules
and Regulations for the Village of Pemberville, Ohio this              day of
                           20           .
(Approval of this plat for recording does not constitute an acceptance of the
dedication of any public street, road, or highway dedicated on such plat, per
R.C. §§ 711.04 and 711.041.)
                                                                                                                         
         Chairperson                        Secretary
         (e)   Village Engineer.
         Approved this                day of                                 ,
20              .
                                                                      
         Village Engineer
         (f)   Village Council.
   This is to certify that this plat of
                                                                      is hereby
approved and the streets as shown hereon are accepted by Ordinance No.
          .
         Date                                     
            Council of the Village of Pemberville Wood County, Ohio
         By
                                                                               
            Mayor
         By
                                                                               
            Clerk
         (g)   Office of the County Auditor.
         Transferred this                day of                             ,
20          .
                                                                                    
         Wood County Auditor
         (h)   Office of the County Recorder.
         This plat filed for record this                day of
                        , 20        at      .m.
Recorded this         day of                             , 20        , in Plat
Book        , Page        .
                                                             
         Wood County Recorder
   (C)   Other required information.
      (1)   If a zoning change is involved, certification from the responsible
authority shall be required indicating that the change has been approved and is
in effect;
      (2)   Certification shall be required showing that the final detailed
plans and specifications for the improvements have been approved by the
village’s engineering representative and other proper state and county
agencies;
      (3)   Certification shall be required showing that all required
improvements have been either installed and approved by the proper officials or
agencies, or that a performance guarantee has been provided, in favor of the
village, assuring installation and initial maintenance of the required
improvements;
      (4)   Certified waiver of lien from all contractors, subcontractors, and
suppliers involved in the development;
      (5)   Three complete sets of as-built construction drawings shall be
provided upon completion of the proposed improvements;
      (6)   As-built construction drawings shall also be provided in electronic
data format (CADD drawings) acceptable to the village’s Street Department and
Utilities Department;
      (7)   Review and approval by the County Engineer’s office and other
applicable county offices; and
      (8)   When the subdivision is located in a flood hazard area, as
designated on the current flood hazard boundary map for the community, the
final plat shall also contain the following information in addition to the
previous requirements:
         (a)   Fill areas;
         (b)   Flood and/or erosion protective/preventive measures or works;
         (c)   Areas subject to special deed restrictions; and
         (d)   Buildable and/or non-buildable areas of the subdivision.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.041 FILING OF FINAL PLAT AND RECEIPT BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The final plat application shall be considered officially filed on the
day it is received by the responsible authority for distribution to Planning
Commission and proper village officials/departments for review and shall be so
dated. A filing fee shall be paid as indicated in §
150.133. Filing of the final plat application shall be made not later than 12
months after the date of approval of the preliminary plat/drawing unless an
extension of the preliminary plat/drawing approval is granted by Planning
Commission upon request of the applicant as indicated in §
150.034.
   (B)   The final plat shall be considered officially received by the Planning
Commission at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission,
following the date the preliminary plat was properly filed with the responsible
authority.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.042 APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat within 30
days after it is received by the Planning Commission. Failure of the Commission
to act upon the final plat within such time shall be deemed as approval of the
plat. If the plat is disapproved, the grounds for disapproval shall be stated
in the records of the Commission and a copy of said record shall be forwarded
to the developer. The Commission shall not disapprove the final plat if the
developer has complied with all applicable regulations and has proceeded in
accordance with the conditions and standards as specified for the approved
preliminary drawing. If disapproved, the developer shall make the necessary
corrections and resubmit the final plat within 60 days to the Commission for
review. If a plat is refused by the Commission, the person submitting the plat
shall be entitled to such appeal as is provided in the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.043 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   When the final plat has been approved by the Planning Commission and
accepted by Council, the original tracing shall be returned to the developer
for filing with the County Recorder after all necessary certifications are
received. The final plat shall be recorded with the County Recorder within six
months from the date of approval of the Planning Commission. If not recorded
within this time, the approval of the Planning Commission and acceptance by
Council will be null and void.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.044 MINOR SUBDIVISION (LOT SPLITS).
   (A)   Approval without a plat of a minor subdivision may be granted by the
Planning Commission if the proposed division of a parcel of land meets all of
the following conditions:
      (1)   The proposed subdivision is located along an existing public road
and involves no opening, widening, or extension of any street or road;
      (2)   No more than five lots are involved after the original parcel has
been completely subdivided;
      (3)   The proposed subdivision is not contrary to applicable subdivision
or zoning regulations; and
      (4)   The property has been surveyed and a sketch and legal description
of the property is submitted with the application.
   (B)   If approval is given under these provisions, the Planning Commission
shall, within 30 days after receipt, approve such proposed division and, upon
presentation of a conveyance for said parcel, shall stamp “Approved by the
Planning Commission of the Village of Pemberville, Ohio; no plat required.”,
and the authorized representative of the Commission shall sign the conveyance.
   (C)   A request for minor subdivision shall be considered officially
received by Planning Commission at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission, following the date the request for minor subdivision was
properly filed with the responsible authority.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.045 REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMISSION OF MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   The subdivision drawing shall be submitted in three blueline or
blackline copies to the Planning Commission. The drawing shall be on an eight
and one-half-inch by 11-inch minimum or 24-inch by 36-inch maximum sheet and at
a scale represented by not smaller than 100 feet to the inch.
   (B)   Shown on the drawing will be the original parcel of land which is
proposed for subdividing with all proposed lots or parcels. Shown on the
drawing of the parcel will be dimensions of all property lines of the original
and proposed parcels. Include where available angles and bearings.
   (C)   The drawing shall include all adjoining property lines, rights-of-way,
and easements.
   (D)   The drawing shall include existing zoning on the original parcel,
location of any existing structures and/or buildings, and existing and
applicable new building setback lines.
   (E)   North arrow, graphic scale, and the date shall be shown.
   (F)   Included will be the name, address, signature, telephone number, and
fax number of the owner(s) and applicant(s).
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
Editor’s note:
   Diagrams of different types of subdivision plats, plans, and the like can be
found in the ordinance codified herein
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 150.060 GENERAL STATEMENT.
   (A)   The regulations in §§
150.061 to
150.079, inclusive, shall control the manner in which streets, lots, and other
elements of a subdivision are arranged on the land. These design controls are
intended to help ensure convenient and safe streets, creation of usable lots,
provision of space for public utilities and reservation of land for
recreational uses. The planning of attractive and functional neighborhoods
shall be promoted, minimizing the undesirable features of unplanned, haphazard
growth.
   (B)   The Planning Commission has the responsibility of reviewing the design
of each future subdivision early in its design development. The Commission
shall ensure that all of the requirements of §§
150.061 to
150.079, inclusive, are met. In addition, all improvements must meet the
minimum requirements of the Construction and Geometric Standards and the
current Construction and Materials Specifications of the state’s Department of
Transportation, the state’s Environmental Protection Agency, the American Water
Works Association, and the village.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.061 CONFORMITY TO DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND ZONING.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, width, and location of all arterial and
collector thoroughfares, or extensions thereof, shall conform with the
village’s major thoroughfare plan.
   (B)   Thoroughfares not contained in the aforementioned plan shall conform
to the recommendation of the Planning Commission based upon the design
standards set forth in §§
150.062 through
150.080, §§
150.095 to
150.119, and
Appendix B of these regulations, inclusive. In addition, no final plat of land
within the area in which an existing zoning ordinance is in effect shall be
approved unless it conforms with such ordinance.
      (1)   Relation to adjoining street system. The proposed street system
shall extend existing streets and rights-of-way at the same or greater width,
but in no case less than the required minimum width.
      (2)   Street widths.
         (a)   The minimum width of right-of-way, measured from the lot line to
lot line, shall be as shown on the major thoroughfare plan, or if not shown on
such plan, shall be not less than as indicated in Table 1 through Table 3 of
this subchapter.
         (b)   In cases where topography or other physical conditions make a
street of the required minimum width impracticable, the Planning Commission may
modify these requirements. Through proposed business areas, the street widths
shall be increased ten feet on each side, if needed, to provide parking without
interference of normal passing traffic.
      (3)   Additional width on existing streets. Subdivisions that adjoin
existing streets shall dedicate additional rights-of-way to meet the above
minimum street width requirements.
         (a)   The entire right-of-way shall be provided where any part of the
subdivision is on both sides of the existing street.
         (b)   When the subdivision is located on only one side of an existing
street, at least one-half of the required right-of-way, measured from the
centerline of the existing roadway, shall be provided. In no case shall the
resulting right-of-way width be less than 60 feet.
      (4)   Restriction of access.
         (a)   When a tract fronts on an arterial street or highway, the
Planning Commission may require such lots to be provided with frontage on, and
ingress/egress to, a marginal access street.
         (b)   The cost of design and construction of marginal access streets
shall be the responsibility of the developer.
      (5)   Intersections.
         (a)   Street intersections shall be as nearly at right angles as is
possible, and no intersection shall be at an angle of less than specified in
Table 4 of this subchapter.
         (b)   Property line (right-of-way) radii at street intersections shall
not be less than 20 feet and, where the angle of street intersection is less
than 75 degrees, the Planning Commission may require a greater curb and/or
right-of-way radius. Wherever necessary to permit the construction of a curb
having a desirable radius without curtailing the sidewalk at a street corner to
less than normal width, the property line (right-of-way) at such street corner
shall be rounded or otherwise set back sufficiently to permit such
construction.
      (6)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150
feet shall not be allowed.
      (7)   Private streets and reserve strips.
         (a)   There shall be no private streets platted in any proposed
subdivision or development. Every subdivided property shall be served from a
publicly dedicated street.
         (b)   There shall be no reserve strips controlling access to streets,
except where the control of such strips is definitely placed with the community
under conditions approved by the Planning Commission.
      (8)   Alleys. Alleys shall be provided to the rear of all lots used for
business purposes and shall not be provided in residential blocks, except where
the developer produces evidence satisfactory to the Planning Commission of the
need for alleys.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.062 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   If the Planning Commission finds that land proposed to be subdivided is
unsuitable for subdivision development due to flooding, bad drainage,
topography, inadequate water treatment facilities, inadequate water
distribution facilities, inadequate water supply, inadequate wastewater
treatment facilities, inadequate wastewater collection facilities, schools,
transportation facilities, and other such conditions which may endanger health,
life, or property; and, if from investigations conducted by the public agencies
concerned, it is determined that in the best interest of the public the land
should not be developed for the purpose proposed, the Commission shall not
approve the land for subdivision unless adequate methods are advanced by the
developer for solving the problems that will be created by the development of
the land.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.063 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   The arrangement, character, extent, width, alignment, grade,
construction, and location of all streets shall conform to the major
thoroughfare plan and construction standards of the village, or subsequent
amendments thereto, and shall be considered in their relation to existing and
planned streets, topographical conditions, and public convenience and safety;
and, in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be
served by such streets, the street pattern shall discourage through traffic in
the interior of a subdivision. The developer shall provide, within the
boundaries of the subdivision plat, the necessary right-of-way for the
widening, continuance, or alignment of such streets in conformance with the
major thoroughfare plan.
   (B)   The finished elevation of proposed streets shall be no more than one
foot below the regional floodplain. The Planning Commission may require, where
necessary, profiles and elevations of streets to determine compliance with this
requirement. Drainage openings shall be sufficient to discharge flood flows
without unduly increasing flood heights.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.064 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS FOR CUL-DE-SACS AND LOOP TYPE LOCAL STREETS.
   (A)   The design and improvement standards contained in the following table
are minimums for cul- de-sacs and loop type local streets in residential
subdivisions. All such streets shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with standards as specified in Table 1 below.
   (B)   Cul-de-sac streets with center islands for grass/landscaping shall not
be permitted, except by special permission of Planning Commission.
Table 1. Street Design Standards for Cul-De-Sacs and Loop Type Local Streets
Development Density Low Med High
Table 1. Street Design Standards for Cul-De-Sacs and Loop Type Local Streets
Development Density                                            Low  Med  High
Maximum cul-de-sac length                                      700  500  500
Maximum grade                                                  4%   4%   4%
Minimum centerline radius of streets with an angle of turn of: 100  100  100
1. Between 80 and 100                                          200  200  200
2. Less than 80 or more than 100
Minimum cul-de-sac radius (ROW)                                70   70   70
Minimum cul-de-sac radius (pavement)                           50   50   50
Minimum grade                                                  .4%  .4%  .4%
Minimum stopping sight distance (ft.)                          200  200  200
Pavement width (ft.)(1)                                        24   24   26
Right-of-way (ft.)                                             60   60   60
Sidewalk width (ft.)                                           4(2) 4(2) 4(2)
Note: Exceptions to the standards contained in this table are permitted under
certain conditions for large lots (§§
150.071 and
150.072; for variance procedures see §
150.134).
(1) Pavement widths are inclusive of curbs or combination curbs and gutters.
(2) Planning Commission reserves the right to require wider sidewalks when
deemed necessary.
 
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.065 STREET DESIGN STANDARDS FOR ALL LOCAL STREETS EXCEPT CUL-DE-SACS AND
LOOP TYPE STREETS.
   The design and improvement standards contained in the following table are
minimums for all local type streets, except cul-de-sacs and loop type streets,
in residential subdivisions. All such streets shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with the standards as specified in Table 2.
Table 2. Street Design Standards for All Local Streets Except Cul-De-Sacs
and Loop Type Streets
Development Density Low Med High
Table 2. Street Design Standards for All Local Streets Except Cul-De-Sacs
and Loop Type Streets
Development Density                                        Low   Med   High
Maximum grade                                              4%    4%    4%
Minimum centerline radius of streets with an angle of turn
of:                                                        100   100   100
1. Between 80 and 100                                      200   200   200
2. Less than 80 or more than 100
Minimum grade                                              .4%   .4%   .4%
Minimum stopping sight distance (ft.)                      200   200   200
Pavement width (ft.)(1)                                    26    26    36
Right-of-way (ft.)                                         60    60    80
Sidewalk width (ft.)                                       4 (2) 4 (2) 4 (2)
Note: Exceptions to the standards contained in this table are permitted
under certain conditions for large lots (§§
150.071 and
150.072; for variance procedures see §
150.134).
(1) Pavement widths are exclusive of curbs or combination curbs and gutters.
(2) Planning Commission reserves the right to require wider sidewalks when
deemed necessary.
 
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.066 COLLECTOR STREET DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The design and improvement standards contained in the following table are
minimums for all collector streets. All such streets shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with the standards as specified in Table 3.
Table 3. Collector Street Design Standards
Development Density Low Med High
Table 3. Collector Street Design Standards
Development Density                                      Low   Med   High
Maximum grade                                            4%    4%    4%
Minimum centerline radius                                350   350   350
Minimum grade                                            .4%   .4%   .4%
Minimum spacing when intersecting with an arterial (ft.) 1,320 1,320 1,320
Minimum stopping sight distance (ft.)                    250   250   250
Pavement width (ft.)(1)                                  26    36    36
Right-of-way (ft.)                                       60    80    80
Sidewalk width (ft.)                                     4(2)  4(2)  4(2)
(1) Pavement widths are exclusive of curbs or combination curbs and gutters.
(2) Planning Commission reserves the right to require wider sidewalks when
deemed necessary.
 
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.067 HORIZONTAL ALIGNMENT.
   When there is an angle of deflection of more than two degrees between two
centerline tangent sections of a street, a curve of adequate radius shall
connect them (see §§
150.064 to
150.066, inclusive). Between reverse curves, a minimum tangent of 100 feet
shall be introduced.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.068 VERTICAL CURVES.
   (A)   No vertical curve shall be established unless the algebraic difference
in grades is greater than 1.2%. On any vertical curve, the grade shall be at
least 0.4% between adjacent points.
   (B)   Minimum vertical visibility shall conform to the state’s Department of
Transportation’s regulations in effect on the date of the approval of the
preliminary drawing.
   (C)   No street grade shall be greater than 3% within 100 feet of an
intersection.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.069 INTERSECTION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   The design and improvement standards for intersections are minimums
for all street intersections in subdivisions. All such intersections shall be
designed and constructed in accordance with the standards as specified in Table
4.
   (B)   Multiple intersections involving junctions of more than two streets
shall be avoided.
Table 4. Intersection Design Standards
Table 4. Intersection Design Standards
Clear sight distance (length along each approach leg)                         90 (ft.)
Maximum approach speed                                                        25 (mph)
Minimum angle of intersection                                                 75 degrees
   Streets shall remain in the angle of intersection for at least 100 feet (90 degrees
beyond the point of intersection.                                             preferred)*
                                                                              150 (ft.) -
Minimum centerline, offset of adjacent intersections #                        all cases
(1) Local-local                                                               200 (ft.) -
(2) Local-collector                                                           all cases
(3) Collector-collector                                                       300 (ft.) -
(4) Collector, marginal access-arterial                                       all cases
                                                                              1,320 (ft.)
                                                                              - all cases
                                                                              25 (ft.) -
Minimum curb radius                                                           all cases
(1) Local-local                                                               25 (ft.) -
(2) Local-collector                                                           all cases
(3) Collector-collector                                                       30 (ft.) -
(4) Collector, marginal access-arterial                                       all cases
                                                                              35 (ft.) -
                                                                              all cases
Vertical alignment with intersection                                          Flat
* The angle between centerline shall be 90 degrees whenever possible.
# Centerline offsets shall be avoided whenever possible.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.070 SPECIAL STREET TYPES.
   The following requirements shall apply to special street types.
   (A)   Permanent deadend streets shall not be permitted. Temporary deadend
streets shall be permitted only as part of a continuing street plan, and only
if a temporary turnaround, satisfactory to the Commission in design, is
provided and provisions for maintenance and removal are advanced. Temporary
deadend streets longer than 700 feet shall not be permitted. When temporary
turnarounds (where approved by Planning Commission) extend beyond the limits of
the proposed plat boundaries, the following additional requirements shall
apply:
      (1)   A permanent easement for the temporary turnaround shall be provided
to the village;
      (2)   A proper reflective barricade shall be installed at the termination
point of the temporary turnaround; and
      (3)   The subdivision owner and/or developer shall provide a proper
performance guarantee for installation of a proper permanent cul-de-sac at the
location of the temporary turnaround in the event that future extension of the
roadway does not occur within two years of recording of the final plat for the
subdivision being served by the temporary turnaround.
   (B)   Dedication of new half-streets shall not be permitted. Where a
dedicated or platted half-street exists adjacent to the tract being subdivided,
the other half shall be platted.
   (C)   Alleys shall not be approved in residential subdivisions, except where
justified by extreme conditions. Alleys may be required in Commercial and
Industrial Districts if other provisions cannot be made for adequate service
access. The minimum widths for alleys shall be 20 feet for the right-of-way and
18 feet for the pavement width.
   (D)   Stub streets (for future developments/extensions) less than 150 feet
in length shall not be required to provide temporary turnarounds. Such streets
must have a proper reflective barricade installed at the termination point
prior to filing of the final plat. Stub streets shall be required to be
improved to the same standards and specifications for roadway, sidewalks,
utilities, trees, signage, and the like as for loop, cul-de-sac, collector,
through, and arterial streets as applicable.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.071 STREETS FOR COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   Street serving business developments and accessory parking areas shall be
planned to connect with arterial streets so as not to generate traffic on local
streets. The intersections of driveways from parking areas with arterial or
collector streets shall be located so as to cause the least possible
interference with traffic movement on the streets and shall be located not less
than 150 feet from the intersection of an arterial or collector street with any
other street, and shall be spaced not less than 200 feet from each other. The
Planning Commission may require marginal access streets to provide maximum
safety and convenience.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.072 STREETS FOR INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Collector streets for industrial subdivisions shall be planned to
serve industrial areas exclusively and shall connect with arterial streets so
that no industrial traffic will be directed onto any residential streets. The
intersections of service streets/driveways from parking areas with arterial or
collector streets shall be located so as to cause the least possible
interference with traffic movement on the streets and shall be located not less
than 100 feet from the intersection of an arterial or collector street with any
other street, and shall be spaced not less than 200 feet from each other.
   (B)   Streets shall be planned to be extended to the boundaries of any
adjoining land planned for industry, except for severe physical conditions or
if the Commission finds such extension is not in accordance with the approved
plan of the area.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.073 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street in all
residential subdivisions.
   (B)   Public sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street for all
commercial lots/subdivisions.
   (C)   Public sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street for all
industrial lots/subdivision.
   (D)   When land proposed for subdivision development is located adjacent to
public access property (i.e., bike trails, recreation parks, nature areas/
preserves, and the like) or located within a reasonable distance of the same,
as determined by Planning Commission, the developer shall be required to
provide sidewalk access to the public access property as directed by the
Planning Commission.
   (E)   Final responsibility for sidewalk installation throughout the
subdivision shall rest with the owner(s)/developer(s) of the subdivision. With
prior approval from the Planning Commission, sidewalk installation may be
deferred for a one-year period from the time of recording of the final plat for
the associated phase of the subdivision. Prior to approving any request for an
extension of time for installation of sidewalks, the owner(s)/developer(s)
shall submit to the Planning Commission a proper performance guarantee, in
favor of the village, assuring the proper installation of sidewalks as required
by this regulation.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Deferred sidewalk installation, see §
150.103
§ 150.074 BLOCKS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of blocks.
   (A)   The arrangement of blocks shall be such as to conform to the street
planning criteria set forth in §§
150.063 to
150.073, inclusive, and shall be arranged to accommodate lots and building
sites of the size and character required for the district as set forth in these
subdivision regulations and/or the zoning ordinance and to provide for the
required community facilities.
   (B)   Irregularly shaped blocks, those intended for cul-de-sacs or loop
streets, and those containing interior parks or playgrounds, may be approved by
the Commission if properly designed and located and if the maintenance of
interior public spaces is covered by agreements.
   (C)   No block shall be longer than 1,500 feet or shorter than 400 feet and
the block width shall accommodate two tiers of lots, except where unusual
topography or other exceptional physical circumstances exist.
   (D)   Where blocks are over 800 feet in length a walkway easement not less
than ten feet in width at or near the half-way point may be required, if
necessary, to provide proper access to schools, recreational areas, shopping
centers, and other facilities.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.075 LOTS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of lots.
   (A)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will
provide satisfactory building sites, properly related to topography and the
character of surrounding development.
   (B)   All lots shall conform to, or exceed the requirements of, these
subdivision regulations and the zoning district requirements for the district
in which they are located and the use for which they are intended.
   (C)   Each lot shall front on a public thoroughfare. The minimum lot sizes,
widths, and set backs shall be as specified in the zoning ordinance.
   (D)   All side lot lines shall be at right angles to street lines and radial
to curved street lines, except where the Commission determines that a variation
to this rule would provide a better layout.
   (E)   Lots with double frontage shall be avoided except where the Commission
determines that it is essential to provide separation of residential
development from arterial streets.
   (F)   No corner lot shall have a width at the front yard setback line in
each direction of less than that which is consistent with the zoning ordinance.
   (G)   No lot shall have an average depth which is more than three times its
average width, nor shall it have an average depth of less than 120 feet.
   (H)   Lot width of irregularly shaped lots, measured at the street line
(right-of-way), shall not be less than 70% of the lot width required at the
front yard setback line.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.076 SITE GRADING.
   (A)   All lots shall be graded to carry surface water to an approved
watercourse or storm sewer. Preliminary lot grading shall be completed at the
time of street and utility installation to prevent water ponding on undeveloped
lots.
   (B)   Finished ground elevation at building foundation for all structures
shall be a minimum of one foot above grade at the sidewalk or front lot line
and shall be shown on the site grading plan for each lot. Retaining walls shall
be constructed on side or rear lot lines where the grade vanes across lot lines
by one foot or more within three feet of side lot line. No foundation for any
occupied structure shall be placed at an elevation lower than a 100-year flood
reoccurrence elevation.
   (C)   A grading and drainage plan shall be submitted, showing all existing
and proposed storm sewers, manholes, catch basins, watercourses, culverts, and
other underground structures within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto,
with pipe sizes and grades or waterway openings indicated thereon. Existing and
proposed topographic contours to one foot shall be indicated thereon. The plan
shall show the method to be used for adequate detention and disposal of all
storm sewer water, including drainage outlets, and shall include a typical lot
cross section drawn perpendicular to the street indicating lot grading and such
other data as may be required by the village’s engineering representative. Rear
yard drainage improvements will be required to be provided in the form of yard
drain inlets and/or perforated tile installed by the developer. Such plan shall
be drawn at a scale not less than 50 feet to the inch.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.077 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements at least 20 feet in width centered along rear or side lot
lines shall be provided where necessary for sanitary sewers, storm sewers, gas
mains, water lines, electric lines, cable television lines, telephone lines,
and the like. Easements shall also be provided along every watercourse, storm
sewer, drainage channel, or stream within a subdivision, as provided for in
these regulations, as deemed necessary by the Village Engineer and/or City
Engineer. This is the minimum easement width to be provided and larger
easements may be required for multiple utilities.
   (B)   Easements ten feet in width shall be provided along and adjacent to
all proposed street rights-of-way for installation of necessary utility lines
which could include, but shall not be limited to, storm sewers, sanitary
sewers, waterlines, gas lines, electric, telephone, cablevision, and the like.
   (C)   These easement widths listed are minimums for typical utility
installations. Larger easements may be required for multiple or special utility
installations (i.e., pumping/lift stations, electrical transformers, switching
equipment, and the like).
   (D)   Public utility companies shall be consulted for their opinion on
easement locations and widths so as to minimize difficulties in servicing.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.078 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   In order to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the
people, the Planning Commission shall reject any proposed subdivision located
in an area known to be subjected to periodic flooding. If the subdivision is
located in an area having poor drainage or other adverse physical
characteristics, the Commission may approve the subdivision provided the
developer agrees to perform such improvements as will render the area safe for
the intended use. In lieu of improvements, the developer shall furnish a surety
or certified check covering the cost of the required improvements, as
determined by the village’s engineering representative.
   (B)   Storm drainage facilities, including storm water detention, shall be
provided as determined by the Planning Commission and the village’s engineering
representative. Storm system design shall generally conform to requirements as
indicated in Appendix B of these regulations. Storm sewer improvements shall be
recommended in lieu of swales or drainage ditches, except where the Commission
determines otherwise acceptable.
      (1)   Access to storm drainage ditches and channels shall be by means of
easements. Such easements shall be equal to the width of the required cross
section of said ditch plus 30 feet on one side and ten feet on other side. Said
easement shall be dedicated for public use for the purpose of widening,
deepening, or relocating.
      (2)   Flood control or storm drainage easements containing underground
facilities shall have a minimum width of 20 feet. The Planning Commission may
require wider easements upon recommendations of the village’s engineering
representative.
      (3)   Whenever a storm detention pond, flood control/storm drainage ditch
or channel has a depth of five feet or more, or a bank slope of two feet
horizontal to one foot vertical (2:1) or steeper, a five foot high masonry wall
or a five foot high chain link fence may be required by the Commission.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.079 PARK LAND.
   (A)   The developer of any land being subdivided or platted may be required
to provide to the village, land to meet the requirements for neighborhood park
land as based upon criteria established by the Planning Commission. The
developer shall also, wherever possible, establish the preservation of all
natural features which add value to residential developments and to the
community, such as large wooded areas, watercourses, areas of historical
significance, and similar irreplaceable assets. Such land shall be identified
by the Planning Commission and be dedicated to the village to be used for park
purposes.
   (B)   Alternatively, Planning Commission may elect to require the developer
to provide a fee in lieu of land as described in §
150.080.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.080 PUBLIC USE AND SERVICE AREAS.
   Due consideration shall be given to the allocation of areas suitably located
and of adequate size for parks and open spaces for local or neighborhood use,
as well as public service areas.
   (A)   Parks and open space.
      (1)   The Commission may specify to the extent required, the allocation
of play fields, parks, and other open spaces that may be essential to
maintaining proper development of areas of the village proposed for
subdivision. Due regard shall be shown for the preservation of outstanding
natural, cultural, and aesthetic features of the area as determined by the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   In residential developments of ten acres or more, the Commission
shall evaluate the proposed site location to determine which of the following
options is most appropriate with regard to the needs of the village.
         (a)   Dedicate land, provide and install improvements to a minimum of
5% of the gross area of the subdivision as park land and/or open space. The
scope of such improvements shall be as required by the village’s park and
recreation authority and subject to the review and approval of Planning
Commission. Improvements shall include, but not be limited to, landscaping,
baseball fields, basketball courts, tennis courts, equipped playground areas,
and similar improvements for park or open space activities; or
         (b)   1.   Deposit in an escrow account, in favor of the village, a
fee equivalent to the fair market value of 5% of the gross land area of the
proposed subdivision in its raw, unimproved, pre- developed state, plus $25 per
recorded lot as shown on the final plat. Upon recording of the final plat, such
escrow deposit shall be forwarded to Village Council with the stipulation that
it be allocated for the acquisition and/or improvement of park land,
recreational land, or open space, and may be expended by and at the discretion
of Village Council for the same.
            2.   Fair market value shall be determined as follows.
               a.   A fair market value shall be determined by the Planning
Commission based upon current appraisals of the County Auditor or a qualified
real estate appraiser of the Planning Commission’s choice, and/or the most
recent land sale transaction occurring immediately prior to the recording of
any phase of the development or the subdivision in its entirety. In the event
of phased development, the fair market value for the entire tract to be platted
shall be based upon the portion of property transferred to the developer
immediately prior to recording of the first plat.
               b.   If the developer rejects the amount of the valuation, he or
she may, at his or her expense, obtain an appraisal by a qualified real estate
appraiser approved by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may
accept or reject the appraisal from the developer’s appraiser or may negotiate
for a final value.
               c.   If Planning Commission rejects the appraisal provided by
the developer, then the developer shall refer the determination of the fair
market value to the County Court of Common Pleas.
            3.   In the event of the exercise of (A)(2)(a) above, improvement
of the open space as required shall occur prior to recording of the final plat
for the first phase of the development or a performance guarantee shall be
established in favor of the village for such improvements to be completed by a
specified date as determined by Planning Commission. Such improvements shall
include the completion of any streets and other infrastructure necessary to
provide access and/or utility service to the open space.
            4.   Lands that become available for parks and open space through
this section may be further developed and/or maintained by the village or by a
non-profit homeowners association established for the subdivision. Operation
and maintenance responsibilities shall be determined by Village Council and
guidelines for the same shall be established prior to the acceptance of any
land, the completion of any improvements, the establishment of any performance
guarantees, and/or the recording of any final plat.
   (B)   Easements for utilities.
      (1)   Except where alleys are permitted for the purpose, the Planning
Commission shall require easements, ten feet in width, for poles, wires,
conduits, storm and sanitary sewers, gas, water and heat mains or other utility
lines, along all front, rear lot lines, and along side lot lines if necessary,
or if, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, deemed advisable. Easements
of the same or greater width may be required along the lines of, or across,
lots where necessary for the extension of existing or planned utilities.
      (2)   The developer shall consult with public utility companies for their
opinion on easement locations and widths so as to minimize future difficulties
in servicing.
   (C)   Community assets. In all subdivisions, due regard shall be shown for
all natural features such as large trees, watercourses, historical spots, and
similar community assets which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value
to the property.
   (D)   Suitability of the land.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall not approve the subdivision of land
if, from adequate investigations conducted by all public agencies concerned, it
has been determined that, in the best interest of the public, the site is not
suitable for platting and development purposes of the kind proposed.
      (2)   Land subject to flooding and land deemed to be topographically
unsuitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy, nor for such other
uses as may increase danger to health, life, or property or aggravate erosion
or flood hazard. Such land within the plat shall be set aside for such uses as
shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation or shall not
produce unsatisfactory living conditions.
   (E)   Large tracts or parcels. When land is subdivided into larger parcels
than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged so as to allow for
the opening of future streets and logical further resubdivision.
   (F)   Zoning or other regulations.
      (1)   No final plat of land within the force and effect of an existing
zoning ordinance will be approved unless it conforms with such ordinance.
      (2)   Whenever there is a discrepancy between minimum standards or
dimensions noted herein and those contained in zoning regulations, building
code, or other official regulations, the highest standard shall apply.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
REQUIREMENTS FOR CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 150.095 GUARANTEE FOR INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All improvements required herein shall be constructed prior to the
acceptance of the final plat by the Planning Commission; or the developer shall
furnish the Commission with a performance guarantee in favor of the village for
the amount of the estimated construction cost for the ultimate installation and
initial maintenance of the improvements, plus 20%, as determined by Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The developer shall pay 100% of the cost of all improvements therein,
including the cost of engineering necessary for inspection and testing of the
entire project and of other pertinent expenses.
   (C)   The village requires that plans be drawn, including specifications for
material and equipment to be incorporated in the work, all in accordance with
its standards and specifications. All improvements shall be installed, tested,
and sterilized, where applicable, under the immediate and direct supervision of
the village or its designated representative.
   (D)   At the time that plans are approved, the developer shall be required
to submit a construction time schedule, a construction cost estimate certified
by the developer’s engineer, and a material specification list itemizing the
material type, supplier, and manufacturer.
   (E)   The village’s engineering representative shall determine that the
material proposed for use meets the standards specified herein. The village’s
engineering representative shall estimate the inspection fees based on the
developer’s construction cost estimate and time schedule and notify the
developer and responsible authority accordingly. Prior to final plan approval
and initiation of any construction, the developer shall provide a performance
guarantee to the Clerk of Council in the amount specified by the village’s
engineering representative to be held in escrow for village inspection/testing
services and other applicable expenses.
   (F)   The developer shall notify the village and the village’s engineering
representative 72 hours minimum in advance of the date on which construction is
to commence so inspection and testing services may be appropriately scheduled.
   (G)   All provisions of the current village construction standards and
specifications shall be strictly complied with in the construction of
improvements or appurtenances thereto. Under no conditions shall the village
accept an improvement and connect it to the village system unless the work has
been done in accordance with these standards, including plan preparation,
furnishing of materials, and installation under the direct supervision of the
village or its authorized representative.
   (H)   The developer is cautioned that, unless otherwise specifically
authorized in writing, operation of village water system valves, hydrants, or
other appurtenances or removal of any system pipe, fittings, special services,
or appurtenances is not permitted by other than village personnel. The
contractor is required, upon completion of all improvements, to furnish all
equipment, supplies, and labor necessary to pressure test and sterilize utility
improvements in accordance with village specifications.
   (I)   Upon an approved pressure and sterilization test report and the
receipt of a one year maintenance guarantee in an amount equal to 50% of the
certified construction cost estimate, the utility shall be certified for
service taps.
   (J)   After receipt of “record” or “as built” tracings and electronic CADD
drawings, any excess monies deposited by the developer to cover village
expenses shall be refunded and any additional costs over and above the
estimated deposit shall be invoiced to and paid by the developer before
utilities are certified for service taps.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.096 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURE AND MATERIALS.
   The developer shall design and construct improvements not less than the
standards outlined in the standard construction details of the village. The
work shall be done under village supervision and inspection and shall be
completed within the time fixed or agreed upon by the village’s engineering
representative. The minimum requirements for materials and specifications shall
be in accordance with the current standards of the “Construction and Material
Specifications” of the state’s Department of Transportation, the state’s
Environmental Protection Agency, the county, and the village. All inspection
costs shall be paid for by the developer.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.097 MONUMENTS, MARKERS, AND PINS.
   Monuments, markers, and pins shall be provided as follows.
   (A)   Type A. A cylindrical concrete marker six inches in diameter and 36
inches in length with a one quarter inch iron rod cast at the central axis of
the cylinder. Said marker shall be placed in a vertical position with its top
being level with the surface of the surrounding ground. One Type A monument
shall be set at each change in direction of the boundary line of the plat at
all points not in the pavement area.
   (B)   Type B. A cylindrical concrete marker as described for a Type A
monument except that a machine type iron bolt (without nut) of one-inch
diameter by 12 inches in length shall be placed in a vertical position with the
head of the bolt upward and level with the surface of the pavement. (A point
shall be marked on the head of the bolt to indicate the exact point referred to
on the final plat.) One Type B monument shall be set at each point of
intersection and change in direction of the centerline of street right-of-way
alignment. Type B monuments shall also be provided at the point of intersection
of a plat boundary line and the centerline of street right-of-way alignment.
   (C)   Type C. Lot corners not required to be occupied by concrete monuments
shall be marked with a standard iron survey pin not less than five-eighths-inch
in diameter and 30 inches long. Lot corner markers shall be installed to be
flush with finished ground elevations.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.098 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   All streets shall be graded to their full width (right-of-way to right-of-
way), including side slopes and improved in conformance with the standards
given or referred to in these regulations.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.099 STREET WIDTH.
   Minimum street pavement widths shall conform to the standards given in §§
150.065 to
150.066, inclusive.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.100 STREET SUBGRADE.
   The pavement subgrade shall be free of sod, vegetative or organic matter,
soft clay, and other objectionable materials for a depth of at least two feet
below the finished surface. The subgrade shall be properly rolled, shaped, and
compacted and shall be subject to the approval of the village’s engineering
representative in accordance with the state’s Department of Transportation
specifications.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.101 STREET PAVEMENT.
   (A)   The developer, with consent of the Planning Commission, shall utilize
one of the following types of pavement for his or her subdivision:
      (1)   Portland cement concrete pavement with integral concrete curb;
      (2)   Asphaltic concrete pavement with concrete curbs;
      (3)   Asphaltic concrete pavement with concrete curb and gutter; and
      (4)   Composite pavement consisting of an asphaltic concrete surface on a
Portland cement concrete base with integral concrete curb.
   (B)   Soils testing will be required and will be provided by the village at
the developer’s expense to determine or verify the pavement design information
being supplied.
   (C)   The pavement design, including thickness, composition, materials, and
typical section, shall be based on, and determined by, a careful analysis of
existing and projected traffic data, a detailed soils investigation and a study
of the strength of materials by the developer’s engineer. The supporting
pavement design data and soil tests shall be submitted to the village’s
engineering representative along with the detailed plans for review and
approval.
   (D)   The absolute minimum allowable design of Portland cement concrete
pavement with integral concrete curbs shall be a minimum of seven inches in
depth and shall include epoxy coated longitudinal joint tie bars or hook bolts.
   (E)   The absolute minimum allowable design of flexible pavement shall be
three and one-half inches of asphaltic concrete over eight inches of properly
compacted aggregate base minimum, or equivalent structural thickness, and no
less than as specified in the “Construction and Material Specifications” of the
state’s Department of Transportation.
   (F)   All pavements and appurtenant items shall be constructed in accordance
with the current “Construction and Material Specifications” of the state’s
Department of Transportation and the construction standards of the county and
the village.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.102 CURBS, CURB AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Concrete curbs shall be required for all streets and shall be one of
the types specified below.
      (1)   Straight curb. For use with flexible pavement.
      (2)   Straight curb. To be poured integrally with concrete pavement or
two feet, six inches combination curb and gutter.
      (3)   Rolled curb. To be poured integrally with concrete pavement.
      (4)   Mountable curb. To be poured integrally with concrete pavement or
with a two feet, six inches combination curb and gutter section.
   (B)   The mountable type curb shall be used in only single-family
subdivisions unless otherwise approved by Planning Commission. Curbs and
combination curbs and gutters shall be constructed in accordance with the
current “Construction and Material Specifications” of the state’s Department of
Transportation and the construction standards and specifications of the county
and the village.
   (C)   A permit will be required for all curb cuts proposed within the
village.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.103 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   For the safety of pedestrians and of children at play, installation of
sidewalks on both sides of streets shall be required by the developer. The
Commission may waive the requirements of sidewalks where park, railroad, or
other use on one side of a street makes a sidewalk nonessential. Sidewalks will
be required in all areas, including commercial and industrial areas.
   (B)   Sidewalks shall typically be located one foot from the property line
(right-of-way line) to prevent interference or encroachment by fencing, walls,
hedges, or other planting or structures placed on the property line at a later
date.
   (C)   Sidewalks in commercial and industrial areas shall conform to adjacent
sidewalks in width or otherwise be a minimum of four feet in width.
   (D)   All sidewalks shall be constructed according to ODOT specifications
and the village sidewalk improvement plan.
   (E)   The Planning Commission may defer the installation of sidewalks, in
one year increments, for a period of three years from the date of approval of
the final plat or to a date when 75% of lots in the plat are individually
developed/sold, whichever comes first. The developer shall provide a
performance guarantee, in the amount of 100% of the cost of the improvements,
in favor of the village. Upon receipt by the developer, the guarantee shall be
reviewed yearly by the Planning Commission and shall be released upon
satisfactory completion and inspection of the sidewalks, or portions thereof.
If the sidewalks are not installed under the conditions stated above, the
village reserves the right to install the sidewalks at the developer’s cost.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.104 DRIVEWAYS.
   Driveways shall have a maximum grade of 10%. Driveways and curb cuts shall
be located not less than three feet from the side lot line. Curb cuts for
straight curbs and the flare for rolled curbs shall be three feet wider than
the driveway pavement on each side. Driveways shall be constructed with a
solid, impervious finished surface of either Portland cement concrete,
asphaltic concrete, or solid brick/block pavers.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.105 STREET NAMING, STREET NAME SIGNS, AND TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNS.
   (A)   For purposes of street naming, the following suffixes shall apply:
      (1)   Avenue shall be used only for streets that run in a generally east-
west direction;
      (2)   Boulevard or drive shall be used only for a large meandering type
street;
      (3)   Circle or court shall be used only for cul-de-sac type streets that
run in a generally east-west direction;
      (4)   Lane or place shall be used only for cul-de-sac type streets that
run in a generally north- south direction;
      (5)   Road or way shall be used only for streets that run in a diagonal
manner, either a generally northwest-southeast direction or a northeast-
southwest direction;
      (6)   Street shall be used for thoroughfares that run in a generally
north-south direction; and
      (7)   The words north, south, east, or west should be avoided as part of
a street name whenever possible.
   (B)   Street name signs, of a type in use throughout the village, shall be
erected by the developer at all intersections. Street sign locations and
installation shall be determined by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Whenever a new street is constructed along the approximate alignment
or extension of an existing street, its name shall be the same as that of the
existing street.
   (D)   Whenever a street alignment changes direction more than 75 degrees
without a return to the original alignment within a distance of 500 feet, then
the name of the street shall be changed at the point of curvature.
   (E)   Whenever a cul-de-sac street serves not more than three lots, the name
of the intersecting street shall apply to the cul-de-sac.
   (F)   To avoid duplication and confusion, the proposed names of all streets
shall be approved by the village’s Police, Fire, and EMS Departments prior to
such names being assigned.
   (G)   Traffic control signs, of a type in use throughout the village, shall
be installed by the village at the expense of the developer, at locations to be
determined by the village’s Street Department and Police Department.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.106 STREET AND WALKWAY LIGHTING.
   (A)   The developer shall install street and walkway lights in accordance
with standards and specifications of the village in all residential,
commercial, industrial, and institutional developments.
   (B)   Such lights shall be located at each entrance (streets and walkways)
to the development and in each street intersection within the development. In
addition, whenever the distance between two adjacent street or walkway lights
exceed 300 feet, then additional lights shall be installed in such a manner
that proper light intensity shall be provided and maintained. The developer
shall submit the final detailed construction drawings to the village’s Electric
Department. The Electric Department will design and submit to the developer a
street lighting design to be submitted to the Planning Commission for review
and approval prior to final plat approval.
   (C)   New subdivision street and walkway lighting shall be installed with
all associated wiring underground.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.107 STREET TREES.
   (A)   Trees may be provided by the developer in all developments in
accordance with the following specifications.
      (1)   All trees planted along the tree lawns shall be spaced not closer
than 12 and one-half feet from the side lot lines of the lots in front of which
they are planted and there shall be not less than 25 feet between trees. All
trees shall be located within the tree lawn an equal distance from the back of
curb of the street and the inside face of the sidewalks.
      (2)   All trees planted shall be one of the following varieties
identified in Exhibit 1 and shall have a diameter of not less than one and one-
half inches. Any additional tree varieties not listed in Exhibit 1 shall be
subject to Planning Commission and Tree Commission approval.
   (B)   Trees shall be planted so as not to cause interference with
underground utilities, street lighting, or visibility of street intersections.
Trees shall not be planted prior to the construction of sidewalks. Existing
trees should be retained in new developments wherever possible.
Exhibit 1. Deciduous Shade and Ornamental Trees
Exhibit 1. Deciduous Shade and Ornamental Trees
Large trees - 45 feet and over
Acer rubrum “Red Sunset”                      Red Sunset Red Maple
Fraxinus pennsylvanica subintergerrima “MarshallMarshall Seedless Green Ash
Gleditsia triacanthos inermis “Imperial”      Imperial Honeylocust
Gleditsia triacanthos inermis “Moraine”       Moraine Honeylocust
Gleditsia triacanthos inermis “Skyline”       Skyline Honeylocust
Liquidambar styraciflua “Burgundy”            Burgundy American Sweet Gum
Plantanus acenfolia                               London Planetree
Quercus rubra maxima                              Eastern Red Oak
Quercus shumardi                                  Shumard Oak
Tilia euchlora                                    Crimean Linden
Tilia tomentosa                                   Silver Linden
Medium trees - mostly 30 to 45 feet
Aesculus carnea “Briotii”                     Ruby Red Horsechestnut
Gleditsia triacanthos “Sunburst”              Sunburst Honeylocust
Ostrya virginiana                                 American Hophornbeam
Tilia cordata                                     Littleleaf Linden
Tilia cordata “Chancellor”                    Chancellor Littleleaf Linden
Tilia cordata”Greenspire”                     Greenspire Littleleaf Linden
Tilia cordata “Rancho”                        Rancho Littleaf Linden
Small trees - mostly 10 to 30 feet
Amelanchier laevis                                Allegheny Serviceberry
Cercis canadensis                                 Eastern Redbud
Cornus florida                                    Flowering Dogwood
Crategus lavallei                                 Lavalle Hawthorne
Crataegus “Winter King”                       Winter King Hawthron
Koelreuteria paniculata                           Goldenraintree
Malus astrosanguinea                              Carmine Crab Apple
Malus “Radiant”                               Radiant Crab Apple
Malus “Royalty”                               Royalty Crab Apple
Malus “White Angel”                           White Angel Crab Apple
Malus zumi calocarpa                              Redbud Crab Apple
Pyrus calleryana “Fauriei”                    Dwarf Callery Pear
Syringa amurensis japonica                        Japanese Tree Lilac
 
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.108 UTILITIES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Prior to completion of grading and installation of roadway base, all
of the underground work (water mains, gas mains, and the like) and all service
connections shall be installed completely and approved throughout the length
and width of the road right-of-way.
   (B)   All utilities and service lines shall be placed in streets before
roadway surfacing is attempted. Service lines for sewer, water, gas, and the
like and any other utilities underground shall be extended ten feet beyond the
property line or right-of-way line into each lot. All utility service line
installations shall be completed prior to beginning roadway pavement
installation.
   (C)   Identification tape shall be placed in all trenches containing
underground utilities and shall be located 12 inches above the utility.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.109 WATER SUPPLY IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following requirements shall govern water supply improvements.
   (A)   The developer shall provide a complete water distribution system, and
appropriately spaced fire hydrants and valving. Public water distribution
systems shall meet the requirements of the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency and the village.
   (B)   Fire hydrants with two, two and one-half-inch outlets and one, four
and one-half-inch pumping connection shall be provided by the developer in all
subdivisions with public water supplies. The hydrants should be located between
property lines and curbs with all outlets facing or parallel to the street.
Hydrants shall be placed at the corners of all blocks and the maximum distance
between fire hydrant locations shall not exceed 500 feet in length. Hydrants
shall also be required at the entrance and end of all cul-de-sacs unless
approved otherwise by the Planning Commission. The type of hydrant and control
valves and the location of the hydrant shall be approved by the Village Utility
Department and Fire Chief. The minimum size of any water line serving any
hydrant shall not be less than eight inches in diameter and shall be
circulating water lines. The size and location of all water lines shall be
approved by the village’s engineering representative and the Village Utility
Department. All water lines shall be looped/circulating as determined by the
Village Utility Department and the village’s engineering representative. The
state’s Insurance Services Office should also approve the size and location of
water lines for residential, commercial, and industrial subdivisions/
developments.
   (C)   Tracer wire shall be installed along all polyvinylchloride (PVC) water
mains. Tracer wire shall be accessible from within all main line valve boxes at
proposed ground level.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.110 SANITARY SEWER IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following requirements shall govern sanitary sewer improvements. Public
sanitary sewers shall be installed to adequately serve all lots, including
lateral connections to the public system. Public sewer system extensions shall
meet the requirements of the state’s Environmental Protection Agency and the
village. Combination of sanitary sewers and storm sewers shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.111 DRAINAGE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The developer shall construct all necessary facilities, including
underground pipe, inlets, catch basins, or open drainage ditches, and storm
water detention facilities as determined by Planning Commission and the
village’s engineering representative, to provide for the adequate disposal of
subsurface and surface water and maintenance of natural drainage courses.
   (B)   The velocity of flow in an open ditch shall not exceed four feet per
second in soil ditches or six feet per second in turf gutters. Paved gutters
will be required if velocities of flow are greater than those specified, or if
it is otherwise determined that destructive erosion will result. Drainage
ditches shall be, in general, unacceptable in lieu of an underground storm
sewer system, unless otherwise determined by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.112 STORM SEWER OUTLETS AND STORM WATER DRAINAGE.
   Where an adequate public storm sewer is available at the plat boundary, the
developer shall construct a storm sewer system and connect with such storm
sewer line. If such a storm sewer system is not reasonably accessible, an
alternate storm sewer system or natural drainage channels with easements of
adequate width shall be provided as determined by the village’s engineering
representative and approved by the Planning Commission. Storm drainage,
including drain tile around basements, shall not be permitted to discharge into
any sanitary sewer facility, but shall connect to an adequate drainage outlet.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.113 CULVERTS AND BRIDGES.
   Where natural drainage channels intersect any street right-of-way, it shall
be the responsibility of the developer to provide satisfactory bridges and/or
culverts for both vehicular and pedestrian traffic. Where culverts are
required, minimum requirements shall be observed as follows.
   (A)   All roadway culverts, where permitted, shall extend across the entire
right-of-way width of the proposed street. The cover over the culvert and its
capacity shall be determined by the developer’s engineer and be approved by the
village’s engineering representative. The minimum equivalent diameter of a
culvert pipe shall be 18 inches. Depending on existing drainage conditions,
head walls may be required.
   (B)   Driveway culverts shall have a minimum length of 20 feet, and a
minimum diameter of 12 inches. The driveway culverts shall be laid so as to
maintain the flow lines of the ditch or gutter. Headwalls may be required.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.114 ELECTRIC, GAS, CABLEVISION, AND TELEPHONE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Electric, cablevision, and telephone service shall be provided within
each subdivision. Gas service shall be required where reasonably accessible.
Whenever such facilities are reasonably accessible and available, they shall be
required to be installed within a ten-foot wide front yard easement adjacent to
the street right-of-way prior to the approval of the final plat. Telephone,
electric, and street lighting wires, conduits, and cables shall be constructed
underground, except in cases where the Planning Commission determines that
topographic, bedrock, or underground water conditions would limit proper
installation.
   (B)   (1)   Overhead utility lines, where permitted, shall be located at the
rear of all lots. The width of the easement per lot shall not be less than ten
feet and the total easement width shall not be less than 20 feet.
      (2)   Whenever more than one utility, including (sanitary sewer, storm
sewers, and waterlines) are placed underground in the same utility easement,
the location of the utilities and the width of the easement shall be determined
by the Village Utility Department and the village’s engineering representative.
The total easement width shall not be less than 20 feet.
   (C)   Identification shall be placed in all trenches containing underground
utilities and service lines and shall be located 12 inches above the utility.
   (D)   The location of other utilities (electric, gas, telephone, cable
television, and the like) shall be shown on the composite utility plan for
final construction drawing review prior to approval by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.115 OVER-SIZE AND OFF-SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The utilities, pavements, and other land improvements required for the
proposed subdivision shall be designed of over-size and/or with extensions
provided to serve nearby land, which is an integral part of the neighborhood
service or drainage area as determined by the Planning Commission and the
village’s Engineering Representative.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.116 COST OF OVER-SIZE IMPROVEMENTS.
   The developer shall be required to pay for only that part of the
construction costs for the streets, trunk sewers, or water lines which are
serving the proposed subdivision as determined by the Planning Commission and
the village’s engineering representative. The village shall pay the difference
between the cost of required improvements for the proposed subdivision and
improvements required to service the surrounding area as specified in §
150.115.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.117 EXTENSIONS TO BOUNDARIES.
   The developer shall be required to extend all improvements to the boundary
of the proposed subdivision/development to serve adjoining unsubdivided land,
as determined by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.118 OFF-SITE EXTENSIONS, IMPROVEMENTS, AND/OR REPLACEMENTS.
   If streets or utilities are not available at, or require improvement/
replacement to, the boundary of a proposed subdivision, and if the Planning
Commission finds the extensions/replacements across undeveloped areas would not
be warranted as a village expense until some future time, the developer shall
be required, prior to approval of the final plat, to obtain necessary easements
or rights-of-way and construct and pay for such extensions. Such improvements
shall be available for connections by developers/owners of adjoining land.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.119 FINAL INSPECTION.
   Upon completion of all the improvements, the developer shall request, in
writing, a final inspection by the village’s engineering representative as
required under R.C. § 711.091.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
REVISIONS; ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.130 RECODING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded by the County Recorder or have
any validity until said plat has received final approval in the manner
prescribed in these regulations.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.131 REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No changes, erasures, modifications, or revisions shall be made in any plat
of a subdivision after approval has been given by the Planning Commission, and
endorsed in writing on the plat, unless said plat is first resubmitted to the
Planning Commission.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.132 SALE OF LAND WITHIN SUBDIVISIONS.
   No owner or agent of the owner of any land located within a subdivision
shall transfer or sell any land by reference to, exhibition of, or by the use
of a plat of the subdivision before such plat has been approved and recorded in
the manner prescribed in these regulations. The description of such lot or
parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents
used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction
from the provision of these regulations.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.133 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES.
   The Village Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses, and a collection procedure for same, and other matters pertaining to
these regulations. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the
Village Clerk and may be altered or amended only by the Village Council. Until
all applicable fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no action
shall be taken on any application or appeal. Submittals rejected/disapproved
for any reason by the Planning Commission shall forfeit associated fees paid
for that submittal.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.134 VARIANCES.
   The following regulations shall govern the granting of variances.
   (A)   Where the Planning Commission finds that extraordinary and unnecessary
hardship may result from strict compliance with these regulations, due to
exceptional topographic or other physical conditions, it may vary the
regulations so as to relieve such hardship, provided such relief may be granted
without detriment to the public interest and without impairing the intent and
purpose of these regulations or the desirable development of the neighborhood
and community, and also provided there is no increase in the flood hazard or
flood damage potential. Such variations shall not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of these regulations, the comprehensive plan, or the
zoning ordinance.
   (B)   In granting variances or modifications, the Planning Commission may
require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
objective of the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
   (C)   The developer shall submit a written application for any such variance
request prior to Planning Commission consideration of granting any variance.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.135 APPEAL.
   Any person who believes he or she has been aggrieved by the regulations or
actions of the Planning Commission, has all the rights of appeal as set forth
in R.C. Chapter 711 or any other applicable section of the Ohio Revised Code.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.136 SAMPLE FORMS.
   The sample forms provided in Ord. 1235, copies of which can be found in the
Village Clerk’s office, are adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   The following penalties shall apply to the violations of these regulations.
   (A)   Whoever violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with,
or who resists enforcement of this chapter, or amendment(s) thereto, as adopted
by the Village Council for the purpose of setting standards and requiring and
securing the construction of improvements within a subdivision, or fails to
comply with any order pursuant thereto, is creating a public nuisance and the
creation thereof may be enjoined and maintenance thereof may be abated by
action at suit of the village or any citizen thereof. Whoever so violates these
regulations shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree for a
first offense and shall be fined not to exceed $750 or imprisoned not to exceed
90 days, or both. For a second offense, they shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and fined not to exceed $1,000 or imprisoned
not to exceed six months, or both. Such sum may be recovered with costs in
civil action brought in the County Court of Common Pleas.
   (B)   A County Recorder who records a plat contrary to the provisions of
these regulations shall forfeit and pay not less than $100, nor more than $500,
to be recovered with costs in a civil action by the County Prosecuting
Attorney.
   (C)   Whoever, being the owner or the agent of the owner of any land within
or without a village corporation, transfers any lot, parcel, or tract of such
land from, or in accordance with, a plat of a subdivision before such plat has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder shall forfeit and pay the
sum of not less than $100, nor more than $500, for each lot, parcel, or tract
by metes and bounds in the deed or transfer shall not serve to exempt the
seller from the forfeiture provided in this section, if such land is within a
municipal corporation, such sum may be recovered in a civil action brought in
the County Court of Common Pleas by the legal representative of the
municipality in the name of the municipality.
   (D)   Any person who disposes of, offers for sale or lease, for a time
exceeding five years, any lot or any part of a lot in a subdivision before
provisions of these regulations are complied with shall forfeit and pay the sum
of not less than $100, nor more than $500, for each lot or part of a lot so
sold, offered for sale, or leased, to be recovered with costs in a civil action
in the name of the municipality.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
APPENDIX A: SUMMARY OF PROCEDURAL GUIDELINES FOR DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Initial contact with village.
      (1)   Meet with responsible authority to discuss the approval process and
determine if a plat is required for the project.
      (2)   If plat is not required, the developer may proceed to the Planning
Commission for review and approval.
         (a)   Necessary information must be filed with responsible authority a
minimum of 21 days prior to the next scheduled meeting of Planning Commission.
         (b)   Request shall normally be approved or disapproved by the
Planning Commission within 30 days of its receipt.
      (3)   If a plat is required, the developer has the option of scheduling a
conceptual plan meeting with the responsible authority to be held a minimum of
21 days prior to the next scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. At the
conceptual plan meeting:
         (a)   Necessary fees shall be paid;
         (b)   Conceptual plan checklist shall be completed;
         (c)   Conceptual plan shall be filed with the responsible authority;
and
         (d)   The developer shall be placed on the agenda for the next
scheduled Planning Commission Meeting.
   (B)   Conceptual plan review by Planning Commission.
      (1)   If all pertinent information has been filed by the developer and is
found to be in compliance with Zoning and Subdivision Rules and Regulations,
the Planning Commission may approve the conceptual plan and allow developer to
proceed with preliminary plat preparation
      (2)   Length of time for conceptual plan approval is 21 days to 51 days
depending on the date the conceptual plan was filed (unless applicant waives
term limits for PC action).
   (C)   Preliminary plat meeting. Once the conceptual plan is approved by the
Planning Commission, the developer shall schedule a preliminary plat meeting
with the responsible authority to be held a minimum of 21 days prior to the
next scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. At the preliminary plat
meeting:
      (1)   Necessary fees shall be paid;
      (2)   Preliminary plat checklist shall be completed;
      (3)   Preliminary plat shall be filed with the responsible authority; and
      (4)   The developer may be placed on the agenda for the next scheduled
Planning Commission meeting.
   (D)   Preliminary plat review by Planning Commission.
      (1)   If all pertinent information has been filed by the developer and is
found to be in compliance with zoning and subdivision rules and regulations,
the Planning Commission may approve the preliminary plat and allow the
developer to proceed with final construction drawing and final plat
preparation.
      (2)   Length of time for preliminary plat approval is normally 21 days to
81 days depending on the date the preliminary plat was filed (unless applicant
waives term limits for PC action).
   (E)   Final construction drawing and final plat meeting.
      (1)   Once the preliminary plat is approved by the Planning Commission,
the developer shall schedule a final construction drawing and final plat
meeting with the responsible authority to be held a minimum of 21 days prior to
the next scheduled meeting of Planning Commission. At the final construction
drawing and final plat meeting:
         (a)   Necessary fees shall be paid;
         (b)   Final construction drawing checklist shall be completed;
         (c)   Final plat checklist shall be completed;
         (d)   Final construction drawings and final plat shall be filed with
the responsible authority; and
         (e)   The developer may be placed on the agenda for the next scheduled
Planning Commission meeting.
      (2)   At this time the final plat may be submitted in preliminary/draft
form at the discretion of the developer. If this option is exercised, the plat
will be reviewed for final approval after construction of improvements are
complete.
   (F)   Final construction drawing and final plat review by Planning
Commission.
      (1)   If all pertinent information has been filed by the developer and is
found to be in compliance with zoning and subdivision regulations, the Planning
Commission may approve the final construction drawings and allow the developer
to proceed with construction of improvements for the subdivision.
      (2)   Length of time for final construction drawing approval normally is
21 days to 81 days depending on the date the final construction drawings and
final plat were filed (unless applicant waives term limits for PC action).
      (3)   Final review of the final plat by the Planning Commission will be
completed at the request of the developer after completion of all physical
improvements to the subdivision property and compliance with zoning and
subdivision regulations.
   (G)   Final plat meeting. Upon completion of all physical improvements to
the subdivision property and compliance with zoning and subdivision
regulations, the developer shall schedule a final plat meeting with the
responsible authority to be held a minimum of 21 days prior to the next
scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. At the final plat meeting:
      (1)   Necessary fees shall be paid;
      (2)   Final plat checklist shall be completed;
      (3)   The final plat shall be filed with the responsible authority; and
      (4)   The developer may be placed on the agenda for the next scheduled
Planning Commission meeting.
   (H)   Final plat review by Planning Commission.
      (1)   (a)   If all pertinent information has been filed by the developer,
and all necessary/required performance and maintenance guarantees are in order,
and the plat and construction of all improvements are found to be in compliance
with zoning code and subdivision regulations, Planning Commission may approve
the final plat and forward it to Village Council for their review and approval.
         (b)   Length of time for final plat approval by the Planning
Commission is 21 days to 81 days depending on the date the plat was filed
(unless applicant waives term limits for PC action).
      (2)   Approval of the final plat by Village Council must take place by
ordinance, which will typically require three readings by Council before the
ordinance may be passed, after which a 30-day period must pass before the
ordinance will go into effect.
      (3)   The developer may have the option of combining certain steps
previously listed in order to expedite the review and approval process of the
Planning Commission. This shall be done at the discretion of the responsible
authority and/or Planning Commission and at the sole risk of the developer.
      (4)   This guideline assumes that the developer obtains the necessary
approvals at each step encountered during the approval process and does not
address all alternate procedures which the developer may opt to follow in order
to expedite certain portions of the procedure. Refer to the procedures for
subdivision approval flow chart for these alternate procedures as well as steps
which must be followed by the developer in the event of a denial of approval by
the Planning Commission or Village Council.
   (I)   Approximate minimum length of time to complete process. Typical
minimum length of time to complete the previously described process, not
including time for construction, assumes all filings are done 21 days prior to
next scheduled meeting of Planning Commission.
 
Conceptual plan approval                     3 weeks
Final construction drawing approval          4 weeks
Final plat approval from Planning Commission 4 weeks
Preliminary plat approval                    4 weeks
Total time to complete process               15 weeks*
*Does not include construction time or Council approval process
 
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
APPENDIX B: DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Pavement.
      (1)   No vertical curve shall be established unless the algebraic
differential of grades is greater than 1.2%.
      (2)   On any vertical curve, the grade shall be at least 0.4% between
adjacent points.
      (3)   No top of curb or gutter grade shall be less than 0.4%.
      (4)   The maximum pavement grade shall not exceed 4% (3% within 100 feet
of intersections) except in cases of extreme necessity with prior approval of
the village’s engineering representative.
      (5)   Maximum grade differentials should not exceed 2% and must not
exceed 3% on pavements without prior approval of the village’s engineering
representative.
      (6)   Top of pavement grades shall be established on intersection details
at the following locations:
         (a)   At all ends of radii in gutter and on pavement centerline;
         (b)   At gutter in center of radii;
         (c)   At radii P.I.s;
         (d)   Intersection of pavement centerline with lines connecting radius
P.I.s;
         (e)   Intersection of pavement centerlines; and
         (f)   Any other point necessary to clarify drainage and reduce bump.
      (7)   Minimum curb radius shall be at least 25 feet.
      (8)   Inlets and catch basins shall be located at, or beyond end of
radius. (If radius is 30 feet or greater, inlets and catch basins may be
located in radius with prior approval of the village’s engineering
representative).
      (9)   Through gutters will not be allowed.
   (B)   Design of storm sewer systems. The design of storm sewer systems will
be based upon the “Rational Method” using the equation Q = CIA, and the
“Manning Formula”.
      (1)   The rainfall intensity, V, will be taken from the appropriate curve
for the county area as published in the current technical paper of the U.S.
Weather Bureau, Rainfall Intensity-Duration- Frequency Curves for Selected
Stations in the United States, Alaska, Hawaiian Islands and Puerto Rico
Government Printing Office.
      (2)   t = 20 minutes shall be used as the time of consideration to the
first pick-up point in the system in residential areas.
      (3)   The following runoff coefficients shall be used in residential
areas.
 
Average Lot Size               *Runoff Coefficient “C”
7,200 sq. ft. or less          0.40
7,200 sq. ft. to 9,600 sq. ft. 0.35
9,600 sq. ft. or more          0.30
* Includes right-of-way areas.
 
      (4)   Storm sewers shall be designed to flow just full for the five-year
intensity-duration- frequency curve. Minimum pavement gutter elevations shall
be at or above the hydraulic grade line for a ten-year frequency storm. Use the
ten-year intensity-duration-frequency curve for determining this hydraulic
grade line.
      (5)   Catch basin type and spacing shall be designed using the two-year
intensity-duration- frequency curve. The maximum allowable width of the sheet
gutter flow from the face of the curb shall be limited to eight feet.
      (6)   (a)   An overall drainage area layout plan showing the limits of
the contributing runoff area, broken down into areas contributing to each
drainage pick-up point, shall be submitted with the paving and drainage plans.
Drainage design within the development shall be adequate to handle the entire
contributing watershed area, and its existing, proposed, and probable future
development, and not the area under submission only. Drainage design which
makes use of an existing system shall follow practical engineering judgement.
         (b)   If future plat extensions will utilize the same drainage system,
the overall drainage plan shall be submitted with the first plat paving plans.
      (7)   Complete drainage calculations shall be submitted for pipe size
determinations, ten-year hydraulic gradient checks, and catch basin type and
spacing designs.
      (8)   Storm water runoff control criteria. Storm water runoff control
addresses both peak and total volume of runoff. The peak rate of runoff from an
area after development shall not exceed the peak rate of runoff from the same
area before development for all storms up to a 100-year frequency, 24-hour
storm. Required detention volume shall be calculated using a 25-year design
storm with the maximum allowable peak rate of discharge equal to a five-year
storm with a 20 minute time of concentration and a predeveloped runoff
coefficient of 0.15.
      (9)   (a)   Storm sewers and culverts shall be designed to conform to the
requirements of the state’s Department of Transportation Construction and
Materials Specifications, current edition. Pipe under pavement shall be of Type
“A” and “B” Conduit with Class “A” or “B” Bedding. Pipe not under pavement
shall be Type “C” or “D” Conduit with Class “A” or “B” Bedding. The designer
may indicate a particular kind of pipe by inserting the specification item
number after the designation of the type of conduit. The use of metal pipe will
not be permitted without prior approval of the village’s engineering
representative. Depth of cover shall be the determining factor in selecting the
proper strength of pipe. Minimum cover for Type “A” or “B” Conduit shall have a
minimum cover of nine inches, measured from the top outside crown of the pipe
to the finished subgrade.
         (b)   Polyvinyl chloride conduit acceptable for storm sewer
installation shall meet or exceed ASTM D3034 specification SDR 35, (PS 46) with
joints meeting ASTM D-3212 specifications.
      (10)   Granular material to be used for pipe backfilling shall meet the
requirements of Item 310.02. This statement shall appear on all plans as a
general note or on the standard details.
      (11)   Granular material to be used for pipe bedding shall be No. 8 or
No. 67 stone. This statement shall appear on all plans as a general note or on
the standard details.
      (12)   All catch basins are to be constructed without sumps or traps.
      (13)   Outlets for footer tile drainage shall be provided for all lots in
new subdivisions.
         (a)   All storm sewers within the public right-of-way shall be
designed to include a tee, wye, or cross-over connection, extending ten feet
beyond the right-of-way or property line into each lot, to provide a connection
for each lot within the subdivision.
         (b)   In areas where street drainage would normally be provided by
gutter flow only, the storm sewer shall be extended beyond its normal upper
terminus so as to serve those lots that would not normally front on a storm
sewer. Tees, wyes, or cross-overs will be provided for each lot.
         (c)   The “extended storm sewer” shall be designed for a capacity of
flow equal to 1.25 gallons per minute from each house served, but shall have a
minimum diameter of six inches and a Minimum grade of 1%.
         (d)   All cross-overs shall have a minimum grade of 1%.
         (e)   Locations and elevation of all taps shall be indicated on the
subdivision paving plan.
         (f)   Manholes will be provided at intervals not to exceed 350 feet,
at all abrupt changes in the direction of the sewer line and at the upper
terminus of any “extended storm sewers”.
         (g)   All storm sewer services shall be extended ten feet beyond the
right-of-way or property line into each lot. For a single lot, the service
shall be six-inch minimum diameter.
         (h)   Details of design, materials, and construction procedures shall
be in accordance with the current “Design Criteria”.
         (i)   In subdivisions where the construction of basements or crawl
spaces are prohibited by the developer’s restrictions, the foregoing
requirements will not apply. Such restrictions, however, shall be recited on
the record plat.
   (C)   Pavement design requirements.
      (1)   Soil tests.
         (a)   Soil tests shall be furnished for every 600 lineal feet of
pavement with a minimum of one test per pavement. The village and/or the
village’s engineering representative will be given the opportunity to approve
the location of soil boring on private work prior to the test being made, and
reserves the right to require additional teats if unusual conditions exist.
         (b)   All borings shall be made to a minimum depth of three feet below
the proposed top of curb grade, unless rock is encountered or extreme grade
changes are proposed for the subdivision/improvement site.
         (c)   Tests of each different soil layer encountered below the
proposed grade line shall include the following:
            1.   Moisture determination (actual and optimum);
            2.   AASHTO Classification and group index (each sample);
               a.   Atterburg limit;
               b.   Liquid limit;
               c.   Plastic limit; and
               d.   Plasticity index.
            3.   Mechanical analysis;
            4.   Laboratory C.B.R. of Modulus of Subgrade Reaction “K” may be
made in the following manner. Where more than one soil test is taken on a given
project, the Laboratory C.B.R. or Modulus of Subgrade Reaction”K” shall be made
on the sample indicating the highest group index, providing that the group
indices fall within a range of five. If the group indices do not fall within a
range of five, a Laboratory C.B.R. or Modulus of Subgrade Reaction “K” shall be
made for the highest indicated group index to each range of five of the soil
tests made. If all the group indices have the same value, the Laboratory C.B.R.
or Modulus Subgrade Reaction “K” shall be made on the sample having the highest
percent of particles passing the No. 200 Sieve;
            5.   Maximum laboratory dry weight; and
            6.   Elevation of water table (should be recorded 12 to 24 hours
after water is encountered during boring operations).
         (d)   All soil tests will be performed by a recognized laboratory
acceptable to the village.
      (2)   Pavement design.
         (a)    The current list of manuals and standards to be used in the
design of pavements are as follows:
            1.   Manual of Location and Design by the state’s Department of
Transportation;
            2.   Construction and Materials Specifications; state’s Department
of Transportation - current edition;
            3.   The Design of Concrete Pavements for City Streets by the
Portland Cement Association (1963); and
            4.   Thickness Design for Concrete Pavements by the Portland Cement
Association (1966).
         (b)   Pavement design shall be based on equivalent daily 18,000 lbs,
single axle applications as indicated. Streets which are to serve as major or
minor collectors, arteries, or have special traffic conditions shall require
actual classification counts or estimates. The following approach is usable for
residential neighborhood streets only.
         (c)   The normal residential street shall have a 20-year design for
four axles per lane per day at the legal limit of 18,000 lb. single axle or
32,000 lb. dual axle.
         (d)   If the maximum dry weight of the soil is less than 100 pounds
per cubic foot, a minimum of four-inch subbase course shall be used on either
section called for.
         (e)   Design calculations shall be submitted along with proposed
typical and proposed grade line with the soil test holes superimposed on the
profile. A complete soil test report shall be submitted with the
aforementioned.
      (3)   Strength of materials. Rigid - The modulus of rupture used shall be
considered 600 psi. The absolute minimum allowable design of Portland cement
concrete pavement with integral concrete curbs will be seven inches in depth
and will include longitudinal joint epoxy coated tie bars.
(Ord. 1235, passed 7-16-2002)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Design Review Guidelines
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Design Review Board established
   
151.004   Terms
   
151.005   Meetings
   
151.006   Organization and officers
   
151.007   Initial powers of Board
   
151.008   Basic design standards and principles
   
151.009   Additional design criteria and principles applicable to the District
   
151.010   Review of building applications and plans
   
151.011   Approvals or denials by Board
   
151.012   Remedies
   
151.013   Exclusions
   
151.014   Minimum maintenance requirements
   
151.015   Savings clause
   
151.016   Coordination with zoning code
Building Numbering System
   
151.030   Requirement for building
   
151.031   Explanation of system
   
151.032   Assignment and display of address
Dish-Type Satellite Signal-Receiving Antennas
   
151.045   Definitions
   
151.046   Permit required
   
151.047   Application for permit
   
151.048   Location of earth station
   
151.049   Appeals
Community Reinvestment Area
   
151.060   Description of reinvestment area
   
151.061   Application of regulations
   
151.062   Tax abatement
   
151.063   Application fee
   
151.064   Housing Officer
   
151.065   Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council
   
151.066   Right to reevaluate reinvestment area
   
151.067   Annual inspection of properties
Building Code
   
151.080   Adoption of Building Code
   
151.081   Amendments
   
151.082   Incorporation by reference
   
151.083   Implementation
   
151.084   Enforcement
 
   
151.999   Penalty
DESIGN REVIEW GUIDELINES
§ 151.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   To establish procedures whereby the District in the village is
afforded protection from actions that would be detrimental to preserving
established historical and cultural resources in the community, and to pursue
the following objectives:
      (1)   Maintain and enhance the distinctive character of historic
buildings in the District;
      (2)   Safeguard the architectural integrity of the village’s properties
and historic resources within the District;
      (3)   Seek alternatives to demolition or incompatible alterations within
the District before such acts are performed; and
      (4)   Encourage development, alteration, and improvement of properties in
the District in accordance with adopted design criteria.
   (B)   To contribute to the economic, cultural, and educational development
of the village by:
      (1)   Protecting and enhancing the village’s attractions to existing and
prospective residents, businesses, and visitors;
      (2)   Providing support and stimulus to business and industry;
      (3)   Strengthening the economy of the village by stabilizing and
improving property values; and
      (4)   Facilitating reinvestment in and revitalization of the District.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any material change in the external architectural
features of any property which lies within the District, including demolition,
removal, or construction, including plantings and other building accents.
   APPLICANT. Any owner or other interested person(s), association,
partnership, or corporation who is required to obtain approval of the Board in
order to undertake any change on or to property subject to this subchapter.
   BOARD. The Design Review Board established under the provisions of this
subchapter.
   CHANGE. Any alteration, demolition, removal, or construction involving any
property subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
   DISTRICT. The area within the village limits of Pemberville, Ohio designated
by Village Council to be subject to the provisions of this subchapter.
   MEMBER. Any member of the Design Review Board as established under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.003 DESIGN REVIEW BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Design Review Board establishment.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Design Review Board (Board) which
shall consist of five members.
      (2)   The Board shall have such responsibilities, powers, and duties as
are hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   Each member shall have to the maximum extent possible, a recognized
interest in architecture and historic preservation and a determination to work
for the overall improvement of the quality of the physical environment of the
village.
      (2)   The Board shall at all times consist of one member of the
Pemberville Historic Society; one village resident who neither owns, leases, or
operates a business or property in the District; one village merchant who owns
or operates a business in the District; and two individuals who own property in
the District. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary hereinbefore set forth,
the Board shall at all times have three members who are residents of the
village.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.004 TERMS.
   (A)   The ad hoc Steering Committee established to facilitate the purposes
of this subchapter shall provide to Council a list of prospective Board members
which Council may accept, reject, or modify as Council deems appropriate.
   (B)   The terms of the first Board members shall terminate on the applicable
December 31 following their appointment. Thereafter, the term of Board members
shall be deemed to commence on January 1 of each applicable year.
   (C)   Members shall be appointed by Council to serve three-year terms,
except in the initial year when two members shall serve two-year terms and
three members shall have three-year terms. Members shall serve until their
successors have been named by Council. A majority of the members of the Board
shall constitute a quorum, and any actions or decisions of the Board shall have
the support of such majority of its members. Council shall designate which
members shall initially have three-year terms and which shall have two-year
terms.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.005 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet not less than bi-monthly, and more often if specific
actions are required. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and
the conduct of such meetings shall be subject to all legal criteria that would
apply to Village Council meetings, including providing advance public notice.
All applicable Village Council legislation is hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.006 ORGANIZATION AND OFFICERS.
   The members shall select a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, and Secretary at
its initial meeting and at its first meeting after January 31 of each year. The
Chairperson shall conduct the meetings of such Board according to established
rules of procedure, determine the order of meeting agendas, administer oaths to
each person offering testimony for consideration of such Board, and be
responsible for the recording of each public meeting. The Vice-Chairperson
shall perform the duties of the Chairperson in the event of the Chairperson’s
absence. The Secretary shall keep all minutes of the meetings; keep the
calendar of meetings and events pertaining to such Board; keep each member
apprised of meeting times, dates, and agendas; distribute a copy of documents,
drawings, and other papers for each item of business which comes before such
Board; maintain records of and communicate all correspondence to and on behalf
of such Board; and sign any certificates or documents as ordered by a vote of
such Board.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.007 INITIAL POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Board, established by §
151.003, shall have and is hereby vested to exercise the following powers and
perform such duties as are consistent with the scope of its authority:
   (A)   Conduct a continuing survey of cultural resources in the community,
including all buildings, structures, site, objects, and areas of architectural,
historic, or aesthetic interest;
   (B)   Recommend to Council the creation of any additional districts and
their boundaries within the village;
   (C)   Recommend to Council the establishment of any new or modified design
standards and guidelines within the District, or any subsequently created
district, which standards and guidelines may relate to the following
characteristics: structural proportion, structural foundations, exterior wall
appearance, building height, building width, building materials, roof type/
materials, exterior architectural features such as trim, windows, and/or
porches, paving and walkways, plantings and landscaping features, exterior
building colors as they relate to surrounding structures, signs or other
commercial fixtures, and types, materials, and colors offences;
   (D)   Make recommendations to Council concerning the utilization of grants
from federal and state agencies, private groups, individuals, and the
utilization of budgetary appropriations to promote the preservation of historic
or architecturally significant structures within the District or to recommend
the creation of new districts, and promoting the architectural and aesthetic
comparability of structures within a district; and
   (E)   Evaluate and comment upon decisions by other municipal agencies which
affect the physical development and land use patterns with regard to historic
or architecturally significant structures in a district and the aesthetic
compatibility of buildings within said district.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.008 BASIC DESIGN STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES.
   The basic design review criteria (“criteria”) to be applicable in the
District and in any subsequently created district shall be the Standards for
Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings as adopted
by the Secretary of the Interior, U.S. Department of Interior, National Parks
Service, and as exist on the date this provision takes effect, and such
additional standards as Village Council may establish from time to time all
districts for each respective district, which shall include the following
standards for rehabilitation.
   (A)   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a
new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site environment.
   (B)   The historic character of a property shall be retained and preserved.
The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and spaces that
characterize a property shall be avoided.
   (C)   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historic development, such
as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other buildings,
shall not be undertaken.
   (D)   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
   (E)   Distinctive features, finishes, and construction techniques or
examples of craftsmanship that characterize a historic property shall be
preserved.
   (F)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than replaced.
Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive
feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color, texture, and
other visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing
features shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial
evidence.
   (G)   Significant archaeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
   (H)   New additional, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be comparable with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
   (I)   New additional and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that it removed, in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.009 ADDITIONAL DESIGN CRITERIA AND PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO THE DISTRICT.
   In addition to the development criteria set forth in this subchapter, all
applicants in the District shall be subject to the supplemental design criteria
outlined in this section.
   (A)   Purpose. The principles and criteria set forth below are intended to
achieve, among others, the following purposes:
      (1)   To strengthen, protect, enhance, and improve the existing visual
and aesthetic character of the District;
      (2)   To guide development and/or redevelopment of the District, thereby
preserving the historic and architectural resources in the core area and in the
remaining area of the District;
      (3)   To ensure that the particular existing design features which
contribute to the unique character of the District are retained and recreated
in a manner that ensures the village will retain and enhance its sense of
community;
      (4)   To ensure that new development and/or redevelopment respects the
village’s historic qualities and resources through compatible design;
      (5)   To protect and enhance property values;
      (6)   To provide standards for property owners, architects, and
contractors to aid in the preparation of appropriate plans; and
      (7)   To provide the basis for consistency and objective decision making
by the Board when evaluating proposed alteration or change.
   (B)   Aspirational aesthetic principles. The buildings in the District
define the core business hub which represents the essence of the village. In
order to enhance the quality and compatibility of these buildings and thereby
protect the character of the area, all proposed rehabilitation, restoration,
and new construction projects shall incorporate the common aesthetic principles
that are reflected in the village. These principles include:
      (1)   Proportion. The relationship of the dimensions of building details
such as windows or doors, or entire facades from one building to the next shall
create a desired harmony of buildings within the District;
      (2)   Scale. The size of buildings and building elements with respect to
each other as well as the human form shall be consistent with the prevailing
scale of the buildings within the District;
      (3)   Rhythm. The repetition of design in building details, such as the
number and spacing of windows and doors, and backgrounds, such as walls, shall
maintain the architectural rhythm of the existing facades; and
      (4)   Variety and unity. Projects shall blend both variety and unity in
building design through varying levels of distinction in combining building
elements in order to maintain a compatible built environment that is
characterized by unifying qualities of proportion, scale, and rhythm.
   (C)   Augmented criteria. The criteria listed below have been established in
order to protect, maintain, and foster unity of architectural style and visual
compatibility of the District, in conjunction with the aesthetic principles
identified in this subchapter. All criteria, aspirational or otherwise, shall
apply to these portions of structures readily visible from a public street or
highway. The rear portions of structures located on both sides of Front Street
are excluded from this subchapter. It is anticipated that, in the future,
appropriate modifications of this subchapter will be made to apply to the
special aspects of the excluded portions currently exempted of structures.
      (1)   General criteria applicable to all proposals in the District. In
the District, each proposal shall:
         (a)   Compliment the height, width, and general proportions of
adjacent buildings so that an overall harmonious appearance is created;
         (b)   Include architectural features that are appropriate and
compatible with the design of existing buildings and structures, including the
patterns of windows and doors, roof pitch, cornice lines, shutters, dormers,
eaves, and other decorative detail;
         (c)   Enhance the continuity along each block by encouraging the use
of complimentary landscaping, street furniture, brick paving, and other similar
items;
         (d)   Maintain or compliment existing building materials wherever
possible; and
         (e)   Construct or renovate signs in compliance with such criteria as
may hereafter be promulgated. Until then, signs shall conform to the existing
requirements contained in the zoning code.
      (2)   District specific supplemental criteria. Each application submitted
by an applicant shall:
         (a)   Preserve or restore original building facades to the extent
practicable, including the removal of any applied facades that have original
building details preserved beneath;
         (b)   Fill in open spaces between buildings of existing block facades,
either through the development of a building, landscape features, or a
combination of both, to preserve or create a unified street wall;
         (c)   Maintain the repetitive window modules and storefront widths
along established block facades;
         (d)   Preserve and/or develop, whenever possible, the distinguishing
architectural styles from the turn-of-the-century reflected in many of the
facade details, such as pressed metal or corbelled cornices. If major facade
components are badly deteriorated or missing (and replicas are not feasible),
great care should be taken to replace them with creative designs that reflect
the proportions, scale, and details of the original;
         (e)   Maintain the design, scale, and proportion of existing building
windows:
            1.   Preserve the original proportions of window openings during
interior alterations;
            2.   Maintain the original arrangement of glass panes whenever
possible or duplicate similar configurations found along the square;
            3.   Retain or duplicate the original materials of such window
elements as sashes, frames, sills, jambs, and lintels; and
            4.   Maintain widths of single and double module windows that
reflect the architectural lines of the upper part of the facade;
         (f)   Maintain the colors, textures, and bonding patterns of brick
found in existing historic structures;
         (g)   Utilize compatible color schemes that may be part of
maintenance, remodeling, or new construction, limiting strong accent colors for
special effects only. It is the purpose of this section to require any
applicant subject to this subchapter to have the prior approval of the Board
for any color change;
         (h)   Maintain compatible materials and design of public entrance door
(s) and door hardware; and
         (i)   Enhance individual building design through pre-approved
plantings or other building accents.
   (D)   Federal regulations. Any exterior alteration or change proposed in the
District shall also be subject to the U.S. Secretary of Interior’s Standards
for Rehabilitation, which are incorporated herein and outlined in §
151.008. Copies of the complete Standards are available in the Municipal
Offices.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.010 REVIEW OF BUILDING APPLICATIONS AND PLANS.
   (A)   Before any applicant, person, or entity alters, changes, constructs,
reconstructs, demolishes, replaces, repairs, or modifies the exterior wall of
any building or structure or installs or changes any landscaping, plantings,
fences, or other visible exterior improvements in the District, said person or
entity shall prepare and file an application with the Village Building
Inspector for review by the Board.
   (B)   All applicants shall submit an application which contains the
following information:
      (1)   Two color photographs of the present facade of each exterior wall
of the building which is proposed to be altered or changed, including
landscaping, plantings, fences, or other visible exterior improvement(s);
      (2)   The name and address of the owner of the property and the building,
or other interested person, together with the name and address of the business
which occupies the structure, if any;
      (3)   Two sketches of the proposed changes or alterations to each
exterior wall or of the proposed alterations or changes to landscaping,
plantings, fences, and/or other visible exterior improvements, drawn as near as
possible to scale and being easily understandable, with said sketches to
include structural changes, all windows and doorways, roof lines, signage, and
all other related changes and additions; and
      (4)   A description of the proposed colors, proposed materials to be
used, and all related information fully describing the proposed modifications
and additions.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.011 APPROVALS OR DENIALS BY BOARD.
   The Board shall make its decision approving, denying, or denying with
proposed modifications, the application submitted to it within 60 days after
the application was first considered by such Board at a regular or special
meeting. Any denial shall be based upon failure to comply with the criteria,
and the Board shall describe the basis for its finding of such non-compliance.
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal the decision to
the village’s Board of Zoning Appeals. Such appeal shall be heard and decided
in accordance with the rules, regulations, and ordinances governing the
operation of the village’s Board of Zoning Appeals. After the decision is made
by the Zoning Board of Appeals, any aggrieved person may file in the County
Court of Common Pleas in accordance with R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.012 REMEDIES.
   In the event any building, structure, landscaping, plantings, fence, or
other exterior visible alteration or change is erected, installed, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, maintained, or removed contrary to and in violation of
the provisions of this subchapter or any application granted by the Board,
then, in addition to or in lieu of the action as provided by this subchapter,
the Village Council or its agent, any other proper authority of the village, or
any aggrieved person may institute an action for an injunction, mandamus, or
other legal proceeding to prevent such violation, and to abate any illegal
condition, or to cause the removal of any illegal changes or alterations by
appropriate legal means.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.013 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent any normal
maintenance or repair of a structure or architectural feature now or hereafter
in the District which involves no change in material, design, arrangement,
texture, or color.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the
alteration, change, construction, reconstruction, or demolition or any
structure or architectural feature which the Village Building Inspector has
designated as being in an unsafe, or presents a dangerous, condition, as may be
required for the public safety pursuant to any applicable ordinance or the
zoning code.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.014 MINIMUM MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of a structure or other interested persons within the District, if
such structure is vacant and uninhabited, shall provide sufficient maintenance
and upkeep for such structure to ensure its perpetuation and to prevent its
destruction by deterioration. Failure to do so subjects the owner or other
interested person to the provisions of §§
151.012 and
151.016.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.015 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be deemed to require any action
to any building or parcel which, at the time this subchapter was adopted, was
in compliance with all applicable ordinances of the village, including the
village zoning code. Any future alterations or changes to buildings or parcels
of land in the District shall be subject to strict compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter as well as all other ordinances, including the
then applicable village zoning code, subject, however, to the application of §
151.016.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
§ 151.016 COORDINATION WITH ZONING CODE.
   The criteria set forth in this subchapter are additional requirements in the
District. They apply in addition to and apart from any applicable zoning
requirements. In the event of a conflict between the criteria now adopted, and
as hereinafter may from time to time be changed by Council, and any provision
of the village’s zoning code, then the applicable provisions of this subchapter
or any subsequent ordinance shall supersede any otherwise applicable provision
of the village’s zoning code.
(Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-2006)
BUILDING NUMBERING SYSTEM
§ 151.030 REQUIREMENT FOR BUILDING.
   All dwellings and business establishments in the village shall hereafter
have numbers. The two right figures of each building number shall depend upon
the location of the building in its block, and the left figure or figures shall
depend upon the distance of the block from the base lines hereinafter
established.
(Ord. 1155, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 151.031 EXPLANATION OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   Front Street shall be the base line for buildings located on streets
running north and south; Pine Street shall be the base line for buildings
located on streets running east or west. The first figure of the number of all
buildings located in the first block from their base line shall be “1”; the
first figure of the number of all buildings located on the second block from
their base line shall be “2”, and the like. Wherever the distance between
blocks is more than 1,200 feet, the first figure of the number of all buildings
shall be increased one number 1,200 feet from the last street.
   (B)   Numbering within the block shall start at the end of the street
nearest the base line. Consecutive even numbers shall be assigned on the right
side of the streets leaving the base line, and consecutive odd numbers to
buildings on the left side of streets leaving the base line. One number shall
be assigned for each 25 feet of frontage in the residential sections and the
building shall have the number for the frontage on which it stands. In the
business section of town, one number shall be assigned for each 15 feet of
frontage. Half numbers may be assigned to apartments, duplexes, or second story
business establishments. Corner buildings may receive numbers on both streets
on which they face.
(Ord. 1155, passed 2-2-1999)
§ 151.032 ASSIGNMENT AND DISPLAY OF ADDRESS.
   The Clerk shall keep a record of all building numbers. The owners of
dwellings or business establishments shall obtain their number assignment from
the Clerk and place numbers upon their dwelling or business establishment in
such manner as will be legible from the street.
(Ord. 1155, passed 2-2-1999)
DISH-TYPE SATELLITE SIGNAL-RECEIVING ANTENNAS
§ 151.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISH. The part of a satellite signal receiving antenna characteristically
shaped like a saucer or dish.
   DISH-TYPE SATELLITE SIGNAL-RECEIVING ANTENNAS, EARTH STATIONS, or GROUND
STATIONS. One or a combination of two or more of the following:
      (1)   A signal-receiving device (antenna, dish antenna, or dish-type
antenna), the purpose of which is to receive communication or other signals
from satellites in earth orbit and other extraterrestrial sources;
      (2)   A low-noise amplifier (LNA) which is situated at the focal point of
the receiving component and the purpose of which is to magnify, store,
transfer, and/or transmit electronic or light signals; and/or
      (3)   A coaxial cable, the purpose of which is to carry or transmit said
signals to a receiver.
   GROUNDING ROD. A metal pole permanently positioned in the earth to serve as
an electrical conductor through which electrical current may safely pass and
dissipate.
   RECEIVER. A television set or radio receiver.
(Ord. 845, passed 8-6-1985)
§ 151.046 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, or other legal entity
shall construct an earth station without a permit, nor shall construction
commence before a permit is issued in accordance with §
151.047.
(Ord. 845, passed 8-6-1985)
§ 151.047 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   The owner or occupant with written permission from the owner, of any
lot, premises, or parcel of land within the village, who desires to construct
an earth station on said lot, premises, or land parcel, must first obtain a
permit to do so from the Village Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall issue such permit, provided the applicant
submits a written application upon forms provided and approved by the Clerk/
Treasurer, along with a plot plan of the lot, premises, or land parcel
attached, showing the exact location and dimensions of the proposed earth
station; a description of the kind of earth station proposed; the exact
location and dimensions of all buildings or structures. Each application shall
specify, among other things, the name and address of the owner of the real
estate, the applicant, and the person to be permitted to construct the proposed
earth station.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit with each application the sum of $5, which
represents the permit fee. The permit fee shall cover the costs of reviewing
the construction plans, inspecting the final construction, and processing the
application.
(Ord. 845, passed 8-6-1985)
§ 151.048 LOCATION OF EARTH STATION.
   (A)   Ground-mounted.
      (1)   No earth station shall be constructed in any front or side yard,
but shall be constructed to the rear of the residence or main structure.
      (2)   No earth station, including its concrete base slab or other
substructure, shall be constructed less than eight feet from any property line
or easement.
      (3)   No earth station shall be linked, physically or electronically, to
a receiver which is not located on the same lot, premises, or parcel of land as
is the earth station.
      (4)   An earth station shall not exceed a grade height of 15 feet.
      (5)   Wiring between an earth station and a receiver shall be placed at
least four inches beneath the surface of the ground within rigid conduit.
      (6)   Such earth station shall be designed to withstand a wind force of
75 mph without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (7)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110v maximum power design and
be encased in protective guards.
      (8)   An earth station must be bonded to a grounding rod.
   (B)   Roof-mounted.
      (1)   Earth stations shall be mounted directly upon the roof of a primary
or accessory structure, as defined in the building code, and shall not be
mounted upon appurtenances such as chimneys, trees, poles, or spires.
      (2)   An earth station shall not exceed a height of more than four feet
above the roof upon which it is mounted.
      (3)   An earth station “dish” shall not exceed three feet in diameter.
      (4)   An earth station shall be designed to withstand a wind force of 85
mph without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (5)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110v maximum power design and
be encased in protective guards.
      (6)   An earth station must be bonded to a grounding rod.
(Ord. 845, passed 8-6-1985) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.049 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions of the Clerk/Treasurer shall be made to the Board of
Zoning Appeals as provided by this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 845, passed 8-6-1985)
COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA
§ 151.060 DESCRIPTION OF REINVESTMENT AREA.
   The area designated as the village’s Community Reinvestment Area constitutes
an area in which housing facilities or structures of historical significance
are located, and in which new construction or repair of existing facilities has
been discouraged.
(Ord. 1331, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 151.061 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 3735.66, the boundaries of the village’s Community
Reinvestment Area, are hereby established as the corporate limits of the
village as of May 2005, as indicated on Attachment 4A to the ordinance codified
herein. Only commercial and/or industrial properties consistent with the
applicable zoning regulations within the designated Community Reinvestment Area
(CRA) will be eligible for exemptions under this program.
   (B)   All properties identified in Attachment 1 and 1A, attached to the
ordinance codified herein, as being within the designated Community
Reinvestment Area are eligible for this incentive. This proposal is a public/
private partnership intended to promote and expand conforming uses in the
designated area. As part of the project, the village intends to undertake
supporting public improvements in the designated area on an as needed basis
and/or in conjunction with specific projects.
(Ord. 1331, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 151.062 TAX ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Within the Community Reinvestment Area, the percentage of the tax
exemption on the increase in the assessed valuation resulting from improvements
to commercial and industrial real property and the term of those exemptions
shall be negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of construction or
remodeling occurring according to the rules outlined in the R.C. § 3735.67. The
results of the negotiation as approved by this Council will be set in writing
in a Community Reinvestment Area Agreement, as outlined in R.C. § 3735.671.
   (B)   The following rates and terms apply to real property tax abatement.
      (1)   Abatement can be up to 100% for 12 years (negotiable up to 100% and
up to 12 years) for existing commercial and industrial facilities and shall be
negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of construction or remodeling
occurring.
      (2)   Abatement can be up to 100% for 15 years (negotiable up to 100% and
up to 15 years) for new commercial or industrial facilities and shall be
negotiated on a case-by-case basis in advance of construction occurring.
      (3)   If remodeling qualifies for an exemption, during the period of the
exemption, the exempted percentage of the dollar amount of the increase in
market value of the structure shall be exempt from real property taxation. If
new construction qualifies for an exemption, during the period of the exemption
the exempted percentage of the structure shall not be considered to be an
improvement on the land on which it is located for the purpose of real property
taxation.
(Ord. 1331, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 151.063 APPLICATION FEE.
   All commercial and industrial projects are required to comply with the state
application fee requirements of R.C. § 3735.672(C), (currently $750 payable to
the state’s Department of Development). Also, as provided for in R.C. §
3735.671(D), all commercial and industrial projects will be subject to a local
annual monitoring fee equal to 1% of the amount of taxes exempted annually
under the agreement, or a minimum of $500, whichever is greater, up to a
maximum of $2,500.
(Ord. 1331, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 151.064 HOUSING OFFICER.
   To administer and implement the provisions of this subchapter, the Mayor or
his or her designee is designated as the Housing Officer as described in R.C.
§§ 3735.65 through 3735.70.
(Ord. 1331, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 151.065 COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AREA HOUSING COUNCIL.
   (A)   A Community Reinvestment Area Housing Council shall be created,
consisting of:
      (1)   Two members appointed by the Mayor;
      (2)   Two members appointed by the Village Council; and
      (3)   One member appointed by the Village Planning Commission; and
      (4)   The majority of the members shall then appoint two additional
members who shall be residents within the area.
   (B)   Terms of the members of the Housing Council shall be for three years.
An unexpired term resulting from a vacancy in the Housing Council shall be
filled in the same manner as the initial appointment was made.
   (C)   A Tax Incentive Review Council (TIRC) shall be established pursuant to
R.C. § 5709.85 and shall consist of:
      (1)   Three representatives appointed by the Board of County
Commissioners;
      (2)   Two representatives of the municipal corporation, appointed by the
Mayor with Council concurrence;
      (3)   The County Auditor or designee; and
      (4)   A representative of each affected Board of Education.
   (D)   At least two members must be residents of the village. (Members of the
TIRC for the village CRA may be the same individuals that serve on the
village’s Enterprise Zone TIRC.) The Tax Incentive Review Council shall review
annually the compliance of all agreements involving the granting of exemptions
for commercial or industrial real property improvements under R.C. § 3735.671
and make written recommendations to the Council as to continuing, modifying, or
terminating said agreement based upon the performance of the agreement.
(Ord. 1331, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 151.066 RIGHT TO REEVALUATE REINVESTMENT AREA.
   The Village Council reserves the right to reevaluate the designation of the
village’s Community Reinvestment Area after December 31, 2005, and annually
thereafter, at which time the Council may direct the Housing Officer not to
accept any new applications for exemptions as described in R.C. § 3735.67.
(Ord. 1331, passed 7-19-2005)
§ 151.067 ANNUAL INSPECTION OF PROPERTIES.
   The CRA Housing Council shall make an annual inspection of the properties
within the district for which an exemption has been granted under R.C. §
3735.67. The Housing Council shall also hear appeals under R.C. § 3735.70.
(Ord. 1331, passed 7-19-2005)
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.080 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   The Uniform Code of Building Regulations for one-, two-, and three-family
dwellings in the county is hereby adopted as the building code of the village,
as of the effective date of the ordinance incorporated in this section.
(Ord. 482, passed 6-17-1969)
§ 151.081 AMENDMENTS.
   Section 104 of the building code is amended by the addition of the following
paragraph:
“If the owner objects, no inspector shall enter upon any building or premises
without first obtaining a search warrant in the manner prescribed by law.”
(Ord. 482, passed 6-17-1969)
§ 151.082 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The entire Uniform Code of Building Regulations for one-, two-, and
three-family dwellings in the county, as amended by §
151.081, is hereby incorporated by reference in this subchapter.
   (B)   Persons holding building permits issued by the village prior to the
effective date of the ordinance incorporated in this section shall not come
under the provisions of the county’s Uniform Code of Building Regulations but
shall be subject to the provisions of existing ordinances as they exist prior
to the passage of the ordinance incorporated in this section.
   (C)   A complete copy of the county Uniform Code of Building Regulations
adopted herein is on file with the Clerk of the Legislative Authority for
inspection by the public and is also on file in the law library of the county.
The Clerk of Council shall keep copies available for distribution to the public
at cost.
(Ord. 482, passed 6-17-1969)
§ 151.083 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The Mayor and Clerk of the village are hereby authorized to enter into
a contract with the County Commissioners to implement the provisions of the
Uniform Code of Building Regulations for one-, two-, and three-family dwellings
within the village limits.
   (B)   The contract between the village and the County Commissioners shall
grant jurisdiction of the County Commissioners to enforce all provisions of
said Building Code, as amended by §§
151.080 through
151.082 within the village.
(Ord. 483, passed 6-17-1969)
§ 151.084 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The county, acting by and through the county’s Building Department, is
hereby authorized and empowered to administer and enforce the provisions of the
state’s Building Code within said village, in those areas where it is now, or
may later be, properly certified by the Board of Building Standards of the
state.
   (B)   The Mayor and Clerk are hereby authorized and instructed to enter into
an agreement with the Board of Commissioners of the county, in the form and
style to be approved by the Village Solicitor, to implement the provisions
hereof whereby the said county assumes responsibility for administering and
enforcing the provisions of the state’s Building Code within the village, the
same as the said municipal corporation itself might if certified by the Board
of Building Standards of the state.
(Ord. 484, passed 6-17-1969)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions of §
151.012, any person, aggregation of persons, or entities of whatsoever nature
of discription which are recognized by state substantive law, including, but
not limited to, corporations, partnerships, limited liability companies, and
the like, who violate the provisions of §§
151.001 to
151.016, shall be deemed to be in violation of the village’s code of ordinances
and such violation shall be punishable as prescribed by the village’s code of
ordinances. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation.
   (C)   Whoever is the owner of a dwelling or business establishment and fails
for more than 60 days after the effective date of Ordinance 1155 to display the
assigned number upon said dwelling or business establishment, in violation of
§§
151.030 to
151.032, shall be fined not more than $25.
   (D)   Whosoever violates any of the provisions of §§
151.045 to
151.049 shall be fined not more than $250. A separate violation shall be deemed
to have been committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues to occur.
(Ord. 845, passed 8-6-1985; Ord. 1155, passed 2-2-1999; Ord. 1362, passed 5-2-
2006)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Authorization
   
152.002   Findings of fact
   
152.003   Statement of purpose
   
152.004   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
152.005   Application
   
152.006   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.007   Conflict of law
   
152.008   Interpretation
   
152.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
152.010   Definitions
Administration
   
152.025   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.026   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.027   Floodplain development permits
   
152.028   Application required
   
152.029   Review and approval of a Floodplain Development permit application
   
152.030   Inspections
   
152.031   Post-construction certifications required
   
152.032   Revoking floodplain development permit
   
152.033   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
152.034   Map maintenance activities
   
152.035   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
152.036   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.050   Use regulations
   
152.051   Water and wastewater systems
   
152.052   Subdivisions and large developments
   
152.053   Residential structures
   
152.054   Nonresidential structures
   
152.055   Accessory structures
   
152.056   Recreational vehicles
   
152.057   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
152.058   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
   
152.070   Appeals Board established
   
152.071   Powers and duties
   
152.072   Appeals
   
152.073   Variances
   
152.074   Procedure at hearings
   
152.075   Appeal to the court
Enforcement
   
152.090   Compliance required
   
152.091   Notice of violation
 
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the
legal authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens. Therefore, the Village
Council does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The village has special flood hazard areas that are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, and streets and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers which help accommodate or channel flood waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.005 APPLICATION.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the village as identified in §
152.006, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
village.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.006 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or maps are
adopted:
   (A)   Flood Insurance Study Wood County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas and
flood insurance rate map Wood County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas, both
effective September 2, 2011;
   (B)   Other studies and/or maps which may be relied upon for establishment
of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year floodplain,
floodways, or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard; and
   (C)   (1)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the state which has been approved by the
village as required by §
152.052.
      (2)   Any revisions to the aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby
adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. Such maps
and/or studies are on file at the Village Hall, 115 Main Street, Pemberville,
Ohio.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.007 CONFLICT OF LAW.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances,
including subdivision regulations, zoning codes, or building codes. In the
event of a conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed
restriction, covenant, or easement, but the land subject to such interests
shall also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.008 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes. Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency for any flood damage that
results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% CHANCE ANNUAL
FLOOD or 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet mean sea level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the BASE
FLOOD ELEVATION is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR. See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES. Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
The following are the zone definitions.
      (1)   ZONE A. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year flood;
base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   ZONES A1-30 AND ZONE AE. Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   ZONE AH. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (4)   ZONE AO. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (5)   ZONE A99. Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   ZONE B AND ZONE X (SHADED). Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   ZONE C AND ZONE X (UNSHADED). Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation plus two feet of
freeboard. In areas where no BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS exist from any authoritative
source, the flood protection elevation can be historical flood elevations or
base flood elevations determined and/or approved by the Floodplain
Administrator.
   FLOODWAY.
      (1)   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood discharge. A
FLOODWAY is typically determined through a hydraulic and hydrologic engineering
analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water surface elevation of
the base flood discharge is no more than a designated height. In no case shall
the designated height be more than one foot at any point within the community.
      (2)   The FLOODWAY is an extremely hazardous area and is usually
characterized by any of the following: moderate to high velocity flood waters;
high potential for debris and projectile impacts; and moderate to high erosion
forces.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district; or
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio’s inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS. An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Ohio, in accordance with
standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood
elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A letter of map change is an official FEMA
determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective flood insurance rate
maps, flood boundary and floodway maps, and flood insurance studies. LOMCs are
broken down into the following categories.
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to human-made changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, or flood insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure. This definition excludes an “enclosure below the
lowest floor” which is an unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than a
basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the LOWEST FLOOR.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”. For the purposes
of these regulations, a MANUFACTURED HOME includes manufactured homes and
mobile homes as defined in R.C. § 4781.01.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. As specified in the O.A.C. § 4781-12-01, any tract
of land upon which three or more manufactured homes used for habitation are
parked, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and includes any
roadway, building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or intended for use as
part of the facilities of the park. A tract of land that is subdivided and the
individual lots are not for rent or rented, but are for sale or sold for the
purpose of installation of manufactured homes on the lots, is not a
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK, even though three or more manufactured homes are parked
thereon, if the roadways are dedicated to the local government authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). A federal program enabling property
owners in participating communities to purchase insurance protection against
losses from flooding. This insurance is designed to provide an insurance
alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of repairing
damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods. Participation in the
NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities and the federal
government that states if a community will adopt and enforce floodplain
management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all development in
special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make flood insurance
available within the community as a financial protection against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the initial effective date of the Village of Pemberville flood
insurance rate map, August 2, 1982, and includes any subsequent improvements to
such structures.
   PERSON. Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An AGENCY is further defined in the R.C. § 111.15 as
any governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district, or state community college. AGENCY does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general’s department, or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT. A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR. A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA or AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the
floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS are designated by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance studies, flood boundary
and floodway maps, and flood hazard boundary maps as Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-
30, and A99. SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS may also refer to areas that are flood
prone and designated from other federal, state, or local sources of data,
including, but not limited to, historical flood information reflecting high
water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone soils associated
with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The date the building permit was issued, provided the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The
actual START means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered “new
construction”;
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”, provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.025 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Mayor or designee is hereby appointed to administer and implement these
regulations and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.026 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas;
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information;
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance;
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed;
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations, including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, and determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances, and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations;
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations;
   (G)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings;
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up; and
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.027 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity, including, but not limited to, filling, grading,
construction, alteration, remodeling, or expanding any structure, or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within, or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
152.006, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator. Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.028 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required
for all development activities located wholly within, partially within, or in
contact with an identified special flood hazard area. Such application shall be
made by the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent, herein
referred to as “the applicant”, prior to the actual commencement of such
construction on a form furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether
a development site is in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain
Administrator may require an application for a floodplain development permit to
determine the development’s location.
   (B)   Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing;
      (2)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed;
      (3)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures;
      (4)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of, these regulations
      (5)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application for a
floodplain development permit when applicable:
         (a)   Flood-proofing certification for nonresidential flood-proofed
structure as required in § 152.054;
         (b)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
of a structure not meeting the design requirements of § 152.053(E) are designed
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces;
         (c)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in § 152.058(C);
         (d)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by § 152.058(B);
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact
of any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
152.058(A); and
         (f)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments as required by § 152.052.
      (6)   A floodplain development permit application fee set by the schedule
of fees adopted by the village.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.029 REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
152.028 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state, or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required, including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under § 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act, being 33 U.S.C. 403, and §
404 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1344, and the state’s
Environmental Protection Agency under § 401 of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1341.
   (B)   Approval. Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued. All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year. A floodplain development permit shall
expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.030 INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.031 POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued.
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency Elevation Certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner’s representative.
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
152.034(A), a letter of map revision.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.032 REVOKING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable if, among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board in accordance with §§
152.070 to
152.075.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.033 EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing,
or for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and
grading) valued at less than $5,000;
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the state’s Department of Health and
subject to the flood damage reduction provisions of the O.A.C. § 4781;
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the state’s Power Siting
Board under R.C. Chapter 4906;
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734; and
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management
   (B)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.034 MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the village’s flood
maps, studies, and other data identified in §
152.006 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified.
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
152.052.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with this division (A), prepared in a format required
for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision, and
submitted to FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall
be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (A)(1)
above.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor and may be submitted at
any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment. Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the village have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area. In order that the village’s flood insurance rate map
accurately represent the village boundaries, include within such notification a
copy of a map of the village suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the new
corporate limits or the new area for which the village has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.035 DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard.
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations; or
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard. A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
152.070 to
152.075.
   (E)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks, and the like) shall prevail.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.036 SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire, and the like. After such a damage
event, the Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
   (B)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process. These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.050 USE REGULATIONS.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §§
152.006 or
152.035(A).
   (A)   Permitted uses. All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the village are allowed
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3701.
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3734.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.051 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage, and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.052 SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
152.034(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) above.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.053 RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring in this division
(A) and construction materials resistant to flood damage in division (B) below
are satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. Where flood
protection elevation data are not available, the structure shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent natural grade.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood waters may have
an enclosure below the lowest floor, provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage;
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters; and
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.054 NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall meet the requirements of §
152.053(A) to (C) and (E) to (G).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry flood-proofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency Flood-Proofing
Certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
   (C)   Where flood protection elevation data are not available, the structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet
above the highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.055 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Relief to the elevation or dry flood-proofing standards may be granted
for accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet.
   (B)   Such structures must meet the following standards:
      (1)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
      (2)   They shall be constructed of flood-resistant materials;
      (3)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the
minimum resistance to the flow of flood waters;
      (4)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
      (5)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall
be elevated or flood-proofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
      (6)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
152.053(E)(3).
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.056 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days;
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
   (C)   They must meet all standards of §
152.053.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.057 ABOVE GROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.058 ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized.
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted, provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
152.034(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the Mayor of the village and the Chief Executive
Officer of any other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met; or
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted, provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; and
         (b)   Divisions (A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(c) to (A)(2)(e) above.
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse. For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the “bankfill
stage.” The field determination of “bankfill stage” shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state, or other
authoritative source. For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply.
      (1)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfiill flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
state’s Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse. Evidence of such
notification must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
village specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
152.034(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 152.070 APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The Village Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby appointed to serve as
the Appeals Board for these regulations as established by the village code.
   (B)   Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed at the Village
Hall, 115 Main Street, Pemberville, Ohio.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.071 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Appeals Board shall:
   (A) Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these regulations; and
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
152.073.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.072 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator, may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall file,
within 20 days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action,
a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator’s decision.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed
with the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain Administrator shall
transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which the Floodplain
Administrator’s decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.073 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Authority of Appeals Board. Any person believing that the use and
development standards of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship
may file an application for a variance. The Appeals Board shall have the power
to authorize, in specific cases, such variances from the standards of these
regulations, not inconsistent with federal regulations, as will not be contrary
to the public interest where, owning to special conditions of the lot or
parcel, a literal enforcement of the provisions of these regulations would
result in unnecessary hardship.
   (B)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information: name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property; parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
      (3)   A floodplain variance permit application fee set by the schedule of
fees adopted by the village is due at application submission.
   (C)   Public hearing. At such hearing, the applicant shall present such
statements and evidence as the Appeals Board requires. In considering such
variance applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of
fact on all evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other
sections of these regulations, and the following factors:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use that
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (6)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Conditions for variance.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public; or conflict with existing local laws;
         (d)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages; and
         (e)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (2)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances, as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (E)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (C)(1) to (C)(11)
above have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.074 PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing, or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.075 APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the County Court of Common Pleas, as provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.090 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged, or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
152.999.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
152.999.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with §
152.999.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.091 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he or she shall give notice of
such violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with
these regulations as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice and order shall:
      (1)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
      (2)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections
of these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which,
if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
      (3)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
      (4)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal; and
      (5)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person’s last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a fourth degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the
village. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The
village shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in accordance with
the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 1488, passed 7-19-2011)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Purpose
   
153.002   Interpretation and conflict
   
153.003   Compliance with regulations
   
153.004   Uses exempted from provisions of chapter
   
153.005   Short title
   
153.006   Contents: text and map
   
153.007   Scope of regulations
   
153.008   Interpretation
   
153.009   Definitions
Establishment of Districts
   
153.020   Division on village
   
153.021   Open Space Districts
   
153.022   Residential Districts
   
153.023   Commercial Districts
   
153.024   Industrial Districts
   
153.025   Zoning District Map
   
153.026   District Boundaries
Use Regulations
   
153.040   Interpretation
   
153.041   “A” Agricultural
   
153.042   “R-A” Rural Residential
   
153.043   “R-1” Single Family Residential
   
153.044   “R-2” Single Family Residential
   
153.045   “R-3” Multiple Family Residential
   
153.046   “C-1” Neighborhood Commercial
   
153.047   “C-2” General Commercial
   
153.048   “C-3” Central Business District
   
153.049   “M-1” Light Industrial
   
153.050   “M-2” Heavy Industrial
Dimensional Requirements
   
153.065   Basic yard, area, and height requirements for dwellings
   
153.066   Floor area requirements for dwellings
   
153.067   Height regulations for industrial, office, industrial, and apartment
buildings and structures
   
153.068   Existing lots of record
   
153.069   Architectural projections
   
153.070   Special yard requirements
   
153.071   Traffic visibility across corner lots
Off-Street Parking
   
153.085   Off-street parking requirements
   
153.086   Special parking provisions
Special Provisions for Residential Uses
   
153.100   Parking and storing of boats, recreational vehicles, utility
equipment, and mobile homes
   
153.101   Swimming pools
   
153.102   Conversion of dwellings
   
153.103   Family day care facilities
Special Provisions for Commercial and Industrial Uses
   
153.115   Performance requirements
   
153.116   Signs and outdoor advertising structures
   
153.117   Temporary buildings
   
153.118   Open storage and display of material and equipment
   
153.119   Day care facilities
   
153.120   Animal care facilities
Special Provisions for Residential, Commercial, and Industrial Uses
   
153.135   Dish antennas
   
153.136   Ponds
   
153.137   Site design and development - multiple-family dwellings and
nonresidential uses
   
153.138   Specifications for fences and walls
Nonconforming
   
153.150   Nonconforming uses
   
153.151   Zoning certificates for nonconforming uses
Enforcement
   
153.165   Responsible authority
   
153.166   Zoning certificates
   
153.167   Conditions under which certificates are required
   
153.168   Application and issuance of zoning certificates
   
153.169   Fee for zoning certificate
   
153.170   Granting of temporary permits
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
153.185   Organization and procedures
   
153.186   Application and appeals
   
153.187   Hearings
   
153.188   Decision of the Board
   
153.189   Powers and duties
   
153.190   Variances
   
153.191   Conditional uses
   
153.192   Performance requirements
   
153.193   Interpretation of zoning district map
District Changes and Ordinance Amendments
   
153.205   General
   
153.206   Procedure for change in zoning districts
   
153.207   Application
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of protecting and promoting public
health, safety, morals, comfort, and general welfare; preventing overcrowding;
conserving and protecting property and facilitating adequate but economical
provision of public improvements; avoiding congestion in the public streets and
highways; and to amend Ordinance No. 335 of the village, as amended by
Ordinance Nos. 525, 745, 799, 818, 845, 846, 904, 910, 928, 952, and 1053,
effective August 17, 1994, in each and every part thereof that is inconsistent
with this amending ordinance, as of the date of the adoption of this amending
ordinance.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.002 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance
rules or regulations previously adopted or issued and not in conflict with any
of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted or issued,
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises and likewise not
in conflict with this chapter; nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere
with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between
parties; provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the height of
buildings, or requires larger open spaces or larger lot areas than are imposed
or required by such other ordinances or agreements, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.003 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, enlarged, or structurally altered except in conformity with the
area, height, and yard regulations of the district in which such building or
structure is located.
   (B)   No building, structure, or lot shall be used for any purpose other
than that which is permitted in the district in which such building, structure,
or lot is located.
   (C)   No yard or other open space existing about any building or structure
shall be so reduced in area or dimension as to make it less than the minimum
required by this chapter.
   (D)   No lot held under one ownership at the time of the effective date of
this chapter shall be reduced or subdivided in any manner below the minimum
area and yard provision required by this chapter.
   (E)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on one lot except as specifically provided hereinafter. Every lot
shall have access to a public right-of-way and have a minimum width per the
dimensional requirements of §
153.065.
   (F)   Exceptions to these regulations in specific cases may be authorized by
the Zoning Board of Appeals where there are practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships in carrying out the strict letter of this chapter,
providing such exception is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
the ordinance and in accordance with the procedures and provisions specified in
§§
153.185 to
153.193. Hardship shall be based on physical limitations of the land or
structures and does not encompass financial considerations.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.004 USES EXEMPTED FROM PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER.
   The location, erection, construction, reconstruction, change, alteration,
maintenance, removal, use, or enlargement of any building or structures of any
public utility owned by the village, or the use of land by any public utility
owned by the village for the operation of its business or the use of land for
essential services as herein defined shall be permitted in all districts
established by this chapter and no zoning certificate shall be required for any
building or structure or for the use of any land essential to the operations of
a public utility owned by the village.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.005 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Ordinance of the Village of
Pemberville, Ohio”.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.006 CONTENTS: TEXT AND MAP.
   This chapter shall consist of the text hereof, together with that certain
map marked and designated the map of the zoning ordinance of the village, dated
and identified by the signatures of the Mayor and the Village Clerk-Treasurer.
Whenever zone classifications are established or modified, the zoning district
map shall be corrected to show such changes and shall be published unless the
amending ordinance clearly identifies the zone classification changes without
reference to the zoning district map. Either the zoning district map or the
text in amending ordinances shall be sufficient to establish zone changes. The
latest dated zoning district map shall be the effective one.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.007 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   Except as provided by this chapter and except after obtaining a written
zoning certificate from the responsible authority, it shall hereafter be
prohibited in the village:
   (A)   To erect any new building or structure or to relocate, enlarge, or
substantially alter any existing building or structure;
   (B)   To establish, expand, change, or re-establish any nonconforming use of
a building, structure, or land; or
   (C)   To reduce the open structure or plot area required for a building,
structure, parking space, or similar facility or to include any part of such
open space or plot area as that required for an adjoining building or
structure.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.008 INTERPRETATION.
   The words USED FOR include DESIGNED FOR and vice versa; words used in the
present tense include the future; words in the singular number include the
plural number and vice versa; the word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE;
the word DWELLING includes the word RESIDENCE; the word LOT includes the word
PLOT; and the word SHALL is mandatory and not directory.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.009 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign or sign structure which no longer identifies or
advertises a business, service, owner, product, or activity. Such sign(s) and
sign structures shall be removed within 30 days of notification by the
responsible authority.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A detached subordinate building or portion of a main
building, the use of which is clearly incidental to that of the main building
or the use of this land.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use or
building.
   ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
or service or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered elsewhere than on the
premises and only incidentally on the premises, if at all.
   AGRICULTURE. 
      (1)   Includes farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture,
viticulture, animal and poultry husbandry; and only the sale of such products
as are raised on the premises; AGRICULTURE shall not include kennels.
      (2)   Including the necessary accessory uses, provided however that:
         (a)   The operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to
that of normal agricultural activities; and
         (b)   The above uses shall not include the feeding or sheltering of
animals or poultry in penned enclosures within 1,000 feet of any residential
zoning district. AGRICULTURE does not include the feeding of garbage to animals
or the operation or maintenance of a commercial stockyard or feed yard.
   AIRPORT or AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD. Any landing area, runway, or other
facility designed, used, or intended to be used either publicly or by any
person or persons for the landing and taking off of aircraft, including all
necessary taxiways, aircraft storage, and tie-down areas, hangars, and other
necessary buildings and open spaces.
   ALLEY. A public thoroughfare which typically affords a secondary means of
access to the back or side of properties abutting another street.
   ALTERATION, STRUCTURAL. Any change which would tend to prolong the life of
the supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls,
columns, beams, or girders.
   ANIMAL CARE FACILITIES. Structures, buildings, or enclosures used for
medical treatment, including care and temporary housing of animals.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign or display manifesting either kinetic or illusionary
motion occasioned by natural, manual, mechanical, electrical, or other means.
   AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which identifies a neighborhood, a
residential subdivision, a multi-family residential complex or a commercial or
industrial complex.
   AREA OF A SIGN. The area of the largest single face of the sign where the
copy is placed, but excluding the necessary supports or uprights on which the
sign may be placed. Embellishments and other architectural features are not
included in the square footage of the SIGN AREA calculation, and are not to
exceed 25% of the single face area.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A licensed residential care facility that is
designed, maintained, and operated for persons in need of assistance/medical/
rehabilitative care, where, in addition, a limited number of support services
such as meals, housekeeping, transportation, and social and recreational
activities are provided.
   ATHLETIC FIELD. An area substantially open to the sky that may include,
along with the natural environmental features, any other recreational
facilities that the Planning Commission deems permissible. Streets, parking
areas, structures for habitation, and the like shall not be included.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any premises used for supplying gasoline, oil,
grease, batteries, tires, and motor vehicle accessories, at retail direct to
the customer, and where in addition, auto repairs and services may be rendered
and sales made. See also CONVENIENCE GAS STATION.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR. The repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of motor
vehicles or parts thereof, including collision service, painting, and steam
cleaning of vehicles.
   AUTOMOTIVE, TRAVEL TRAILER, AND FARM IMPLEMENT SALES. An open area, other
than a street, used for the display or sale of new or used automobiles, travel
trailers, and farm implements, and where no repair work is done except minor
incidental repair of automobiles, travel trailers, and farm implements to be
displayed and sold on the premises.
   AWNING SIGN. A sign attached to an awning covering a doorway, window, or
face of the building.
   BACKLIT AWNING SIGN. A sign attached to an awning that is covered with
translucent fabric and is internally illuminated.
   BALCONY. A railing enclosed platform projecting from the outer wall of a
building.
   BANNER. A temporary sign not exceeding 30 square feet in aggregate displayed
on a flag or strip of lightweight material made of paper, cloth, or fabric
which is attached to a building, another sign (but as not to obstruct the view
of traffic) or some other existing structure. One BANNER sign is allowed for
two, 30-day periods per year and requires a sign zoning certificate.
   BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a basement shall be counted as a story where one-half of its
height is above average level of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A building in which board or rooming, or both are offered
to the traveling public for compensation, and open to transient guests, in
contradistinction to a hotel, boarding house, or rooming house.
   BOARD. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Pemberville, Ohio.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building or portion thereof, other than a hotel, where
meals or lodging and meals for five or more persons are provided for
compensation.
   BOATS AND BOAT TRAILERS. Includes boats, floats, and rafts, plus the normal
equipment to transport same on the highway.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls designed
or intended for the shelter, support, protection, or enclosure of persons,
animals, property, or chattels.
   BUILDING, COMMUNITY. A building for social, educational, and recreational
activities of a neighborhood or community, provided any such use is not
operated for commercial gain.
   BUILDING FACE OR WALL. All window and wall area of a building in one plane
or elevation.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line of the face of the building nearest the
front line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and covered porches
whether enclosed or unenclosed, but does not include steps.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE. The length of an outside building wall on a right-of-way.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the adjoining curb
grade to the highest point of the roof surface, if a flat roof; to the deckline
of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridges for a
gable, hip, or gambrel roof, provided that where the buildings are set back
from the street line, the HEIGHT of the building may be measured from the
average elevation of the finished grade along the front of the building.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is situated.
   BUILDING, UNIT GROUP. Two or more buildings (other than dwellings) grouped
upon a lot and held under one ownership, such as universities, hospitals, and
institutions.
   BUSINESS CLASSIFICATIONS.
      (1)   BUSINESS, GENERAL. Retail and service establishments which, in
addition to catering to the community residents’ and workers’ daily needs for
convenience goods and services, also include establishments offering
comparative-type shopping facilities. GENERAL BUSINESS includes, but is not
limited to, supermarkets and stores for the sale of drugs, hardware,
appliances, furniture, apparel, footwear, business and personal services,
professional services, and other similar or related activities. Establishments
in this classification are located in the “C-2” General Commercial and “C-3”
Central Business District Zoning Districts.
      (2)   BUSINESS, HIGHWAY. Includes commercial uses requiring locations on
major thoroughfares and at their principal intersections. Highway uses include
motels, motor vehicle service stations, motor vehicle repair, restaurants,
drive-in establishments, automotive and farm implement rental, sales and
services, building trades and services, commercial recreation, and similar
commercial activities, when maintained inside an enclosed building.
Establishments in this classification are located in the “C-2” General
Commercial Zoning District.
      (3)   BUSINESS, NEIGHBORHOOD. Retail and service establishments which
primarily serve a day-to-day need in local market areas and can be located in
close proximity to or within Residential Districts without creating undue
vehicular congestion, excessive noise, or other objectionable influence. To
prevent congestion, local retail and service uses include only those
enterprises which normally employ less than ten persons. Permitted uses include
drug stores, beauty salons, barber shops, carry- outs, dry cleaning and laundry
pickup facilities, and hardware and grocery stores if less than 10,000 square
feet of floor area. Other small businesses of an equally restricted and local
nature may be permitted, based on the discretion of the Zoning Board of
Appeals. Establishments in this classification are located in the “C-1”
Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District and “C-3” Central Business District
Zoning District.
      (4)   BUSINESS, OFFICE-TYPE. Quasi-commercial uses which may often be
transitional between retail business and/or manufacturing, and residential
uses. The term OFFICE-TYPE BUSINESS generally accommodates such occupations as
administrative, executive, professional, accounting, writing, clerical,
stenographic, and drafting. Institutional offices of a charitable,
philanthropic, or religious or educational nature are also included in this
classification. Establishments in this classification are located in the “C-2”
General Commercial and “C-3” Central Business District Zoning Districts.
      (5)   BUSINESS, WHOLESALE. Business establishments that generally sell
commodities in large quantities or by the piece to retailers, jobbers, other
wholesale establishments, or manufacturing establishments. These commodities
are basically for further resale, for use in the fabrication of a product, or
for use by a business service. Establishments in this classification are
located in the “M-1” Light Industrial and “M-2” Heavy Industrial Zoning
Districts.
   BUSINESS SERVICES. Any activity conducted for gain which renders services
primarily to other commercial or industrial enterprises, or which services and
repairs appliances and machines used in homes or business.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted on the premises. A “for sale” sign or a “for rent” sign relating to
the property on which it is displayed shall be deemed a BUSINESS SIGN.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign attached to or constructed on a roof like covering
with poles or an overhanging shelter.
   CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the human or
animal dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories,
mausoleums, and mortuaries if operated in connection with and within the
boundaries of such cemetery.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign.
   CHILD CARE CLINIC. An establishment where patients up to and including the
age of 12 are not lodged overnight but are admitted for examination and
treatment by a physician or a group of physicians practicing medicine together.
   CHILD DAY CARE. Administering to the needs of infants, toddlers, pre-school
children, and school children outside of school hours by persons other than
their parents or guardians, custodians, or relatives by blood, marriage, or
adoption for any part of the 24-hour day in a place or residence other than the
child’s own home. The following are CHILD DAY CARE facilities.
      (1)   CHILD DAY CARE CENTER. Any place in which child day care is
provided, with or without compensation, for 13 or more children at any one
time, or any place that is not the permanent residence of the licensee or
administrator in which child day care is provided, with or without
compensation, for seven to 12 children at any one time. In counting children
for the purposes of this definition, any children under six years of age who
are related to a licensee, administrator, or employee and who are on the
premises shall be counted.
      (2)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME, TYPE A. A permanent residence of the
administrator in which child day care is provided for four to 12 children at
any one time, if four or more children are under two years of age. In counting
children for the purposes of this definition, any children under six years of
age who are related to a licensee, administrator, or employee and who are on
the premises of the TYPE A HOME shall be counted. The term FAMILY DAY CARE
HOME, TYPE A does not include a residence in which the needs of children are
administered to, if all such children are siblings of the same immediate family
and the residence is their home.
   CHURCH. A place of worship that typically includes an assembly room, rooms
for religious education, and administrative offices. A CHURCH is considered a
semi-public use.
   CLEARANCE (OF A SIGN). The smallest vertical distance between the grade of
the adjacent street, highway, or street curb and the lowest point of any sign,
including framework extending over that grade.
   CLINIC. An establishment where human patients, who are not lodged overnight,
are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians practicing
medicine together or professionals licensed to practice the healing arts.
   CLUB. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a
corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
   COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES. Any activity conducted for gain which
is generally related to the entertainment field, such as motion picture
theaters, carnivals, night clubs, and similar entertainment activities.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that
directly or indirectly names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Village of Pemberville, Ohio.
   COMMUNITY WATER AND SEWERAGE FACILITIES OR SERVICES. The water distribution
and/or sewage collection system provided by or authorized or franchised by a
public authority.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use permitted within a district other than a principally
permitted use which is subject to conditional approval by the Zoning Board of
Appeals and requires a conditional use permit. A CONDITIONAL USE may be granted
by the Board only when there is a specific provision for such made in this
chapter. A CONDITIONAL USE is not considered to be a nonconforming use.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the responsible authority upon
approval by the Zoning Board of Appeals to allow a use other than a principally
permitted use to be established within a district.
   CONDOMINIUM (ZERO-LOT LINE DEVELOPMENT). A form of real property ownership
in fee simple of a cubic air space, including only interior surfaces (the
individual dwelling unit), and undivided ownership share, in common with other
purchasers, of the common elements of the project, including the land and its
appurtenances.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A temporary sign identifying an architect, engineer,
financial institution, contractor, subcontractor, and/or material supplier
participating in construction on the property on which the sign is located.
   CONVENIENCE GAS STATION. Any premises used for supplying gasoline as well as
convenience goods, at retail direct to the customer, and wherein auto repairs
and services are not rendered.
   COPY. The graphic content of a sign surface in either permanent or removable
letter, pictographic, symbolic, or alphabetic form.
   COURT. An open unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building or group of buildings and which is bounded on two or more sides by
such building or buildings.
      (1)   INNER COURT. A court other than an outer court. The length of an
INNER COURT is the minimum horizontal dimension measured parallel to its
longest side. The width of an INNER COURT is the minimum horizontal dimension
measured at right angles to its length.
      (2)   OUTER COURT. A court which opens onto a required yard, or street or
alley. The width of an OUTER COURT is the minimum horizontal dimension measured
in the same general direction as the yard, street, or alley upon which the
court opens. The depth of an OUTER COURT is the minimum horizontal dimension
measured at right angles to its width.
   CUL-DE-SAC. See STREET.
   CURB GRADE. The elevation of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of such front. Where no CURB GRADE has been established,
the Village Engineer shall establish such CURB GRADE or its equivalent for the
purpose of this chapter.
   DAY CARE FACILITIES. A place other than a permanent residence which
administers to the need of children or adults providing social, recreational,
or educational activities on a daily basis with no provisions for residential
care.
   DEAD-END STREET. See STREET.
   DIRECTIONAL, SIGN (PRIVATE). An on-premises sign giving directions or
instructions to facilitate traffic flow. Such signs shall not contain the
business name or business logo.
   DISABLED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is inoperable and can not move under its
own power.
   DISH. The part of a signal-receiving antenna characteristically shaped like
a saucer or dish.
   DISH ANTENNA (EARTH STATION) (GROUND STATION). An accessory structure that
shall mean one or a combination of two or more of the following:
      (1)   A signal-receiving device (antenna, dish antenna, or dish-type
antenna), the purpose of which is to receive communication or other signals
from satellites in earth orbit and other extraterrestrial sources;
      (2)   A low-noise amplifier (LNA) which is situated at the focal point of
the receiving component and the purpose of which is to magnify, store,
transfer, and/or transmit electronic or light signals; or
      (3)   A coaxial cable, the purpose of which is to carry or transmit the
signals into a receiver which may be located in the interior of the building.
   DISTRICT, ZONING DISTRICTS. Administrative tracts designating the uses to
which land can legally be utilized. Boundaries of the DISTRICTS are shown on
the zoning district map which is part of this chapter. Regulations concerning
the use of land or buildings are uniform within said tracts.
   DOUBLE FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces.
   DRIVE-IN COMMERCIAL USES. Any retail commercial use providing considerable
off-street parking and catering primarily to vehicular trade such as drive-in
restaurants, drive-in theaters, and similar uses.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof used exclusively for residential
purposes, including one- family, two-family, and multiple-family dwellings. The
term DWELLING shall include Ohio Basic Building Code (OBBC) approved units, but
not include house vehicles or mobile homes as defined by R.C. § 4501.01,
recreational vehicles, hotels, and boarding and lodging houses. RESIDENTIAL
PURPOSES shall mean use or intention to use for living or sleeping by one or
more human occupants.
      (1)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, designed for
occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other,
including condominiums, with varying arrangements of entrances and party walls.
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING may include public housing and industrialized units.
      (2)   ONE-FAMILY. A detached building designed exclusively for occupancy
by one family and separated from other dwelling units by open space.
      (3)   ROW. A row of three to six attached, one-family dwellings, not more
than two rooms deep.
      (4)   TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other, including a duplex (one dwelling
unit above the other), or a semi-detached dwelling (one dwelling unit beside
the other), and each unit having a separate or combined entrance or entrances.
      (5)   UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling or in a commercial building
for which a special residential conditional use has been approved, and designed
for occupancy by one family and its household employees for living, dining, and
sleeping purposes, and having cooking, bathing, and toilet facilities and space
for storage.
   EASEMENTS. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another, and for
a specified purpose, of any designated part of his or her property.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A college or university giving general academic
instruction equivalent to the standards prescribed by the State Board of
Education.
   ELDERLY HOUSING FACILITY. A building or buildings containing 12 or more
dwelling units where occupancy is restricted to elderly persons or households.
Such facilities may include emergency first aid care, day care, therapy,
personal care, nursing facilities, and recreational facilities, and provide for
independent or semi-independent living. For the purposes of this definition,
ELDERLY HOUSING FACILITY shall not include convalescent homes, nursing homes,
group residential facilities, or homes for the aged.
   EMBELLISHMENT. The decorative or ornamental detail on a sign or sign
structure.
   ERECTED. Set up, raised, built, or moved into place.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies, of underground
or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution
systems, collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems, including
poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, traffic signals, hydrants, and
other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith; reasonably
necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or
municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public health or safety or
general welfare, but not including buildings.
   EXEMPTED SIGNS. Exempted from normal permit requirements.
   FACADE. The entire building front including the parapet.
   FAMILY. An individual or married couple and natural or adopted children
thereof, or of either of them, occupying a dwelling for the purposes of
habitation, and including other persons related directly to the individual or
married couple by blood or marriage, and including not more than two lodgers or
boarders.
   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME, TYPE A. See CHILD DAY CARE.
   FIELD, ATHLETIC. See ATHLETIC FIELD.
   FLOOD, REGIONAL. Large floods which have previously occurred or which may be
expected to occur on a particular stream because of like physical
characteristics. The REGIONAL FLOOD generally has an average frequency of the
100-year recurrence interval flood.
   FLOODPLAIN. The land, including the flood fringe and the floodway, subject
to inundation by the regional flood.
   FLOODWAY. The portion of the floodplain, including the channel, required to
convey the regional flood waters. Floods of less frequent recurrence are
usually contained completely within the FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain, excluding the floodway,
where development may be allowed under certain restrictions.
   FOLDING CAMPER. A folding or collapsing structure of low silhouette, mounted
on wheels and designed for travel, recreational, or vacation uses.
   FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation or processing of food products. Examples of
activities included are bakeries and dairies.
   FRONTAGE. All of the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured at the setback
building line. Or if the street is a dead-end street, then all of the property
abutting on one side between an intersecting street and the dead-end of the
street. (For individual lots, see LOT FRONTAGE.)
   FUNERAL HOME. See MORTUARY.
   FUTURE DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A temporary sign indicating the future construction
or development of a building or area but not fitting under the definition of
construction sign.
   GARAGE. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a main building
for the parking or temporary storage of automobiles of the occupants of the
premises, and wherein:
      (1)   Storage shall not exceed three motor vehicles;
      (2)   Not more than one space is rented for parking to persons not
resident on the premises;
      (3)   Not more than one commercial vehicle per dwelling unit is parked or
stored; and
      (4)   The commercial vehicle permitted does not exceed two-ton capacity.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building other than a private garage used for the care,
repair, or equipment of automobiles, or where such vehicles are parked or
stored for remuneration, hire, or sale.
   GAS STATION, GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   GOLF COURSE. An extensive recreational facility that typically includes nine
or 18 holes of golf plus a driving range and a clubhouse which typically
includes a restaurant and a bar.
   GROUNDING ROD. A metal pole permanently positioned in the earth to serve as
an electrical conductor through which electrical current may safely pass and
dissipate.
   GUEST HOUSE. Living quarters within a detached accessory building located on
the same premises with the main building, for use by temporary guests of
occupants of the premises; such quarters have no kitchen facilities and are not
rented or otherwise used as a separate dwelling.
   HEIGHT (OF A SIGN). The vertical distance measured from the highest point of
the sign, including decorative embellishment, to the grade of the adjacent
street or the surface grade beneath the sign, whichever is less.
   HIGHWAY. MAJOR. A street or road of considerable continuity and used
primarily as a traffic artery for intercommunication among large areas.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An accessory use which is an activity, profession,
occupation, service, craft, or revenue-enhancing hobby which is clearly
incidental and subordinate to the use of the premises as a dwelling. In all
Residential Zoning Districts, HOME OCCUPATIONS shall be conditional upon review
and approval by the Zoning Board of Appeals provided:
      (1)   No offensive noise, vibration, smoke, dust odors, or glare shall be
produced and no mechanical equipment is used except of a type that is similar
in character to that normally used for purely domestic or household purposes;
      (2)   Does not involve any extension or modification which alters the
outward appearance as a dwelling unit, with the exception that one non-
illuminated commercial sign does not exceed one square foot in total area and
may be affixed to the exterior of the dwelling;
      (3)   The activity is conducted entirely within the dwelling, and does
not involve an area of more than 20% of the floor area;
      (4)   A HOME OCCUPATION shall provide off-street parking area adequate to
accommodate all needs created by the home occupation in addition to the
requirements for the dwelling. Required off- street parking shall not be
permitted in the front and side yards of the dwelling, other than in a
driveway;
      (5)   No more than one person other than members of the family residing
in the dwelling shall be engaged in a HOME OCCUPATION; and
      (6)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may prescribe any additional conditions
to preserve the residential integrity of the dwelling and/or neighborhood.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof which contains guest rooms which are
designed or intended to be used, let, or hired out for occupancy by, or which
are occupied by, ten or more individuals for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign whose copy is limited to the name and address of
a building, institution, or person and/or to the activity or occupation being
identified.
   INDUSTRIAL PARK. Any parcel containing more than one industry.
   INSTITUTION. Building or land occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a
nonprofit establishment for public use.
   INSTITUTIONAL HOME. A home or institutional facility for the care of babies,
children, pensioners, or elderly people, except those for correctional or
mental cases.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which four or more dogs, more than four
months of age, are kept.
   LIBRARY. A public or semi-public educational institution that, among other
activities, catalogues and stores books and other educational media for
research and archival purposes, disseminates information, and provides books
and other media for recreational reading and learning.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space or berth on the same lot with a building,
or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials, and
which abuts upon a street or other appropriate means of access.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building, or unit group of
buildings, and accessory buildings, together with such yards and other open
spaces and a lot area as are required by this chapter to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage, and area, and having its principal frontage
upon an improved public street, or on an approved private street, and may
consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of a lot of record; or
      (3)   A combination of complete lots of record, of complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot, or portion thereof, not greater than 100 feet in width
and situated at the intersection of two or more streets, having an angle of
intersection of not more than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The ratio of enclosed ground floor area of all buildings on a
lot to the horizontally projected area of the lot, expressed as a percentage.
   LOT DEPTH. The distance between the mid-points of straight lines connecting
the foremost points of the side lot lines in front and the rearmost points of
the side lot lines in the rear.
   LOT FRONTAGE. The length of the property line of any one parcel along a
public right-of-way on which it borders. The front of a lot shall be construed
to be the portion nearest the street. For the purpose of determining yard
requirements on corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to
streets shall be considered FRONTAGE, and yards shall be provided as indicated
under YARDS in this section.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as described and defined herein.
   LOT, MINIMUM AREA OF. The area of a lot computed exclusive of any portion of
the right-of- way of any public or private street.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which individually or as part of a subdivision has
been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder.
   LOT, REVERSED CORNER. A corner lot, the side street line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the lot to its rear.
   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two or more streets.
   LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot at the building setback line measured at right
angles to its depth. The WIDTH of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall be the
chord distance between side lot lines for the curve coinciding with the
required depth of the front yard.
   LOW PROFILE SIGN. A sign mounted directly to the ground with the maximum
height not to exceed five feet measured from the ground surface and not to
exceed seven feet measured from the centerline of the road.
   MAINTENANCE AND STORAGE FACILITIES. Land, buildings, and structures devoted
primarily to the maintenance and storage of construction equipment and
material.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory built, single-family structure that is
transportable in one or more sections, is built on a permanent chassis, and is
used as a place of occupancy which is not constructed with a permanent hitch or
other device allowing transport of the unit other than for the purpose of
delivery to a permanent site and which does not have wheels or axles
permanently attached to its body or frame.
   MANUFACTURING. Any production or industrial process, including food
processing, which combines one or more raw materials or components into a
product, or which changes the nature of the materials entering the process.
      (1)   MANUFACTURING, GENERAL. Any manufacturing, industrial production,
or storage, which by the nature of the materials, equipment, and processes
utilized, is generally conducted within an enclosed building and if outside
storage of material is required, such storage is conducted within a well-
maintained enclosure which shall have an opaqueness of 75% or more. GENERAL
MANUFACTURING shall include the manufacturing of dairy, canned fruit and
vegetable, bakery, soft drink and confectionery products; textile mill products
and apparel; lumber wood products, furniture, and fixtures; plastic products;
perfumes and cosmetics; fabricated products from metal coils and sheets, the
rolling and finishing of ferrous and nonferrous metals; screw machine products
and bolts, nuts and screws, and washers; cutlery, hand tools, and general
hardware; electrical machinery, equipment, and supplies; radio and television
sets; electronic components and accessories; and products of a similar nature.
         (b)   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. 
            1.   Any industrial use which requires buildings and open area for
manufacturing, fabricating, processing, heavy repair, dismantling, testing,
storage, or disposal of raw materials, manufactured products, or wastes, which
is not injurious to health or safety of humans or animals. Typically, HEAVY
MANUFACTURING requires large sites, open storage and service areas, extensive
services and facilities, and ready access to regional transportation. Normally,
such uses generate some nuisances such as smoke, noise vibration, dust, glare,
air pollution, and water pollution, but not beyond the district boundary.
            2.   HEAVY MANUFACTURING shall include primary metal industrial
operations involving the use of blast furnaces, the rolling and finishing of
ferrous and nonferrous metals, iron and steel foundries, primary and secondary
smelting and refining facilities, metal plate and sheet fabricating facilities
for metal plates and sheets, and any other operations which shall be deemed to
be of a similar nature. HEAVY MANUFACTURING shall also include the manufacture
of food and meat products; paper and allied products; chemicals and allied
products, including plastic materials, synthetic rubber and human-made fibers,
soaps and detergents, paints and agricultural chemicals, petroleum refining,
and related industries, including production of paving and roofing materials,
tire products, glass products, and any other products of a similar nature.
         (c)   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. Manufacturing or other industrial uses
which are usually controlled operations; relatively clean, quiet, and free of
objectionable or hazardous elements such as smoke, noise, odor, or dust;
operating and storing within enclosed structures; and generating little
industrial traffic and no nuisances.
         (d)   MANUFACTURING, RESTRICTED. Any industrial use which is conducted
entirely within enclosed, substantially constructed buildings, involving the
use of only light machinery and equipment; does not use the open area about the
buildings for the storage of materials or equipment other than for the
unloading or loading operations at the rear or within an enclosure which abuts
a building. RESTRICTED MANUFACTURING shall include the manufacture of drugs,
jewelry, musical instruments, and sporting goods; the processing and assembly
of small glass products, small household appliances, small electronic products,
scientific instruments, and parts for the production of finished equipment;
office, computing, and accounting machines; research and laboratory testing;
printing, publishing, and engraving plants; and other similar products and
operations.
   MESSAGE. The wording or copy on a sign.
   METAL SALVAGING AND STORAGE. The salvaging of metal in all forms for sale
and storage.
   MINERAL PROCESSING. The processing of coal, limestone, clay, and other
mineral resources, except sand and gravel, provided no chemical change in the
mineral is involved in the process.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable factory built home, designed to be used as a
year-round residential dwelling and built prior to the enactment of the Federal
Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, being 42
U.S.C. 5401-5426, which became effective June 15, 1976.
   MORTUARY. A building or part thereof used for human funeral services. Such
building may contain space and facilities for: embalming and the performance of
other services used in preparation of the dead for burial; the performance of
autopsies and other surgical procedures; the storage of caskets, funeral urns,
and other related funeral supplies; and the storage of funeral vehicles but
shall not include facilities for cremation. Where a funeral home is permitted,
a funeral chapel shall also be permitted.
   MOTEL. A group of attached or detached dwellings containing less than 300
square feet of floor area for each sleeping or living unit and which are
provided for transient guests; including auto courts, motels, and motor lodges.
   MOTORIZED HOME. A portable dwelling designed and constructed as an integral
part of a self propelled vehicle for travel, recreational, or vacation use.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which was constructed legally, but which does not
comply with subsequently enacted sign restrictions and regulations.
   NONCONFORMING USE. The use of land or a building, or portion thereof,
lawfully existing at the time this chapter or amendments thereto became
effective, which does not conform with the use regulations of the district in
which it is situated and are therefore incompatible.
   NURSERY, CHILDREN’S. See CHILD DAY CARE.
   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS. Land, buildings, structures, or combination
thereof, for the storage, cultivation, and/or transplanting of live trees,
shrubs, or plants offered for retail or wholesale sale on the premises,
including products used for gardening or landscaping.
   NURSING HOME. An establishment where persons are housed or lodged and
furnished with meals and nursing or convalescent care for hire.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign or advertisement situated on private premises
used as an outdoor display for the purpose of making anything known on which
the written or pictorial information is not directly related to the principal
use of the land on which such sign is situated.
   OPEN SPACE. An area substantially open to the sky which may be on the same
lot with a building. Along with the natural environmental features, the area
may include any other recreational facilities that the Planning Commission
deems permissible. Streets, parking areas, structures for habitation, and the
like shall not be included.
   PARK. An open space that is set-aside for passive and/or active recreational
purposes. The range of development of a PARK can extend from no development to
highly developed. A PARK may include recreational facilities, a shelter house,
rest rooms, and ball fields. Typically, a public parking area is included.
   PARKING AREA, PRIVATE. An open area, other than a street or alley, used for
the parking of the automobiles of occupants of a dwelling.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC OR CUSTOMER. An open area, other than a private parking
area, street, or alley, used for the parking of automobiles and available for
public or semi-public use.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE. Space within a building or a private or public
parking area for the parking of one automobile.
   PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Consist of an area adequate for parking an
automobile with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly
related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room, but shall be
located totally outside of any street or alley right-of-way.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string
usually in series designed to move in the wind.
   PERSONAL SERVICES. Any enterprise conducted for gain which primarily offers
services to the general public such as shoe repair, watch repairing, barber
shop, beauty parlors, and similar activities.
   PICKUP CAMPER. A structure designed primarily to be mounted on a pickup or
truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for use as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation uses.
   PLAYGROUND. A park or a portion of a park that typically includes
recreational equipment that is youth-oriented in nature (e.g., swings, slides,
and play structures).
   POLE SIGN. Any sign supported by upright structures or supports that are
anchored in the ground and that are independent from any building or other
structure.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign used in connection with a local, state, or
national election or referendum.
   POND. A body of water, of which none of the excavated material has been
removed from the site for commercial purposes, and is used for the following
purposes: to provide water for livestock; fish and wildlife; recreation; fire
control; irrigation; or crop and orchard spraying.
   PORCH. An entrance one story high to a building, projecting out from a main
wall, partially or fully enclosed but not heated.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A-frames or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; inflated
devices such as balloons and other gas-filled figures; umbrellas used for
advertising; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles. Such vehicles are to
be located in a designated off-street parking space that is in compliance with
§
153.085.
   PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES. The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by doctors, dentists, lawyers,
architects, engineers, ministers, authors, artists, or musicians.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign, other than a flat wall sign, which is attached to
and projects from a building wall or other structure not specifically designed
to support the sign.
   PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY. The erection, construction, alteration, operation,
or maintenance of a utility or service building, power plant or substation,
water treatment plant, sewage disposal or pumping facility, or similar public
service structures by a public utility, by a railroad, whether publicly or
privately owned, or by a municipal or other government agency, including the
furnishing of electrical, gas, rail transport, communication, public water, and
sewerage services.
   PUBLIC SERVICE INFORMATION SIGN. Any sign intended primarily to promote
items of general interest to the community such as time, temperature, and date.
PUBLIC SERVICE INFORMATION SIGNS are permitted in Commercial and Industrial
Districts, are not included in the total square footage of sign area allowed,
and require a zoning certificate.
   PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools, administrative (e.g., village halls and
town halls), cultural and service buildings and structures (e.g., fire stations
and police stations), not including public land or buildings devoted solely to
the storage and maintenance of equipment and materials.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign advertising the real estate upon which
the sign is located as being for rent, lease, or sale.
   RECEIVER. A television set or radio receiver.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Public or private facilities that may be classified
as either “extensive” or “intensive” depending upon the scope of services
offered and the extent of use. Extensive facilities generally require and
utilize considerable areas of land and include, but need not be limited to,
hunting, fishing, and riding clubs and parks. Intensive facilities generally
require less land (used more intensively) and include, but need not be limited
to, miniature golf courses, amusement parks, stadiums, and bowling alleys.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Recreational facilities open to
the public, established and operated for a profit, such as commercial golf
courses, swimming pools, ice skating rinks, riding stables, campgrounds, race
tracks, carnivals, and similar commercial enterprises.
      (2)   NONCOMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Private and semi-public
recreational facilities which are not operated for commercial gain, including
private country clubs, riding clubs, golf courses, game preserves, campgrounds,
hunting and trapping, and other private noncommercial recreation areas and
facilities or recreation centers, including private community swimming pools.
NONCOMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES may be leased to outside groups and
organizations provided the fee for such purposes is limited to incidental
maintenance and custodial expenses.
      (3)   RESTRICTED COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES. Concessions for the
sale of food, non-alcoholic beverages, and boating and fishing supplies and
accessories.
   RECREATIONAL AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT. Travel trailers, pickup campers,
motorized homes, folding campers, boats, boat trailers, utility trailers,
snowmobiles, and all-terrain vehicles.
   RESEARCH ACTIVITIES. Research, development, and testing related to such
fields as chemical, pharmaceutical, medical, electrical, transportation, and
engineering. All research, testing, and development shall be carried on within
entirely enclosed buildings, and no noise, smoke, glare, vibration, or odor
shall be detected outside of said building.
   RESIDENTIAL FLOOR AREA. The interior floor area of a dwelling including
stairways, halls, and closets, but not including basement, porches, garages,
breezeways, or carports.
   RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential uses
that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or services
offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering such service at
such location conforms with all requirements of the zoning ordinance.
   RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY. The person designated by the Mayor and Council to
administer and enforce this chapter.
   RETAIL STORE. A store serving a limited local area or neighborhood selling
commodities, not processed on the premises, direct to the public.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken or dedicated for use as a public way. In
addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities and may include special features
(required by the topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, viaducts, and bridges.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract, or parcel of land
and a contiguous right-of-way.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a
building, supported by the roof structure and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building or portion thereof, other than a hotel, where
lodging for five or more persons is provided for compensation.
   ROW HOUSE. Same as DWELLING, ROW.
   SCHOOL, ELEMENTARY AND HIGH. An institution which offers instructions in the
several branches of learning and study required to be taught in the public
schools by the Ohio School Code. HIGH SCHOOLS include junior and senior.
   SEASONAL SIGN OR HOLIDAY SIGN. Any sign such as Christmas decorations or
those used for a holiday and installed for a limited period of time.
   SEAT. For purposes of determining the number of off-street parking spaces
for certain uses, the number of seats is the number of seating units installed
or indicated, or each 24 lineal inches of benches, pews, or space for loose
chairs.
   SELF-SERVICE STORAGE FACILITY. Any real property designed and used for the
purpose of renting or leasing of storage spaces for storage of personal
property.
   SEMI-PUBLIC USES. Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals, and other institutions of an educational, religious, charitable, or
philanthropic nature.
   SETBACK LINE. A line established by zoning, platting, or other legal means
on a lot, a specified distance from and parallel to the lot line defining the
limits of a yard in which no building or structure may be located above ground
to restrict the encroachment of buildings on the lot line, except as may be
provided in this chapter. (See YARD.)
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM, ON-SITE. A septic tank installation on an individual
lot which utilizes an anaerobic bacteriological process for the elimination of
solid wastes and provides for the proper and safe disposal of the effluent,
subject to the approval of health and sanitation officials having jurisdiction.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the road right-of-way outside the roadway which is
improved for the use of pedestrian traffic.
   SIGN. Any visual communication display, object, device, fixture, placard,
graphic, or structure situated indoors or outdoors, or attached to, painted on,
or displayed from a building or structure in order to direct or attract
attention to or to announce or promote an object, person, service, product,
event, location, organization, or the like, or to communicate information of
any kind to the public by means of letters, words, designs, colors, symbols,
images, forms, or illuminations. Architectural design features such as building
accent lighting are not considered SIGNS.
   SIGN FACE. The entire area of a sign on which copy could be placed.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure which supports, has supported, or is capable
of supporting a sign, including decorative cover.
   SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES. Self-propelled units designed to
travel on land and/or water for recreational uses.
   SOCIAL ACTIVITIES. Any building and land used for private or semi-private
club activities, including lodges, fraternities, and similar activities.
   SOLICITOR. Village legal advisor.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it, or, if there be no floors above it,
then the space between such floor and ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of
which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than two feet above
the floor of such story.
   STREET. A dedicated public thoroughfare the full width between property
lines bounding every public way of whatever nature, with a part thereof to be
used for vehicular traffic access to abutting properties. For the purpose of
this chapter, the word STREET shall include the words ROAD, THOROUGHFARE, and
HIGHWAY.
      (1)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street of relatively short length with one end
open to traffic and the other end terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
      (2)   DEAD-END STREET. A street temporarily having only one outlet for
vehicular traffic and intended to be extended or continued in the future.
      (3)   LOCAL STREET. A street primarily designed for providing access to
residential or other abutting property.
   STREET LINE. See RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE.
   STREET WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lines of a street,
measured at right angles to the side lines.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change which would tend to prolong the life of a
supporting member of a structure such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or
girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract, or parcel into two or more lots,
tracts, or parcels or other divisions of land for sale, development, or lease.
   SUBSTANTIALLY TO ALTER. Any exterior alteration or any structural alteration
amounting to a minimum dollar amount established through ordinance by Council.
   SWIMMING POOL. A pool, pond, lake, or open tank containing at least one and
one-half feet of water at any point and maintained by the owner or manager.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any portable sign, flag, pennant, garage sale sign, or
public election and candidate sign that is used temporarily and is not
permanently mounted.
   THIS CHAPTER. Includes, where the text permits, any and all amendments
thereto as the same may be hereafter from time to time adopted.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure, not over 32 feet long or
eight feet wide designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreational, and vacation use.
   USE. The specific purpose for which land or a building is arranged,
designed, or intended, or for which either land or a building is or may be
occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A relaxation of the strict requirements of this chapter where such
variation will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council for the Village of Pemberville, Wood
County, Ohio.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to or placed against a wall of a building with
the face parallel to the building wall and extending not more than one foot
therefrom, which advertises the use carried on within such building.
   WAREHOUSING ACTIVITIES. The receiving, storage, sale, and distribution of
manufacturing products and equipment, such storage to be within wholly enclosed
structures or buildings.
   WASTE DISPOSAL. Disposition of garbage, combustible and noncombustible waste
material.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, picture, symbol, or combination thereof designed to
communicate information about a business, commodity, sale, or service that is
placed inside a window or upon the interior window panes or glass, and is
visible from the exterior of the window.
   YARD. A required open space other than a court, on the same lot with a
building or structure or group of buildings and structures, which open space
lies between the building or group of buildings and the nearest lot line and is
unoccupied and unobstructed from three feet above the general ground level of
the graded lot upward, provided accessories, ornaments, and furniture may be
permitted in any YARD, subject to height limitations and requirements limiting
obstruction of visibility.
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the full width of the lot
between side lot lines, the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance
between the front lot line and the front of the principal building.
      (2)   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot
between side lot lines and from the rear lot line to the rear of the nearest
principal building. The depth of the required REAR YARD shall be measured
horizontally from the nearest part of the principal building to the nearest
point of the rear lot line.
      (3)   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the principal building and the side lot
line extending from the front yard, or front lot line, where no front yard is
required, to the rear yard. The width of the required SIDE YARD shall be
measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot line to the
nearest part of the principal building.
   ZERO-LOT LINE DEVELOPMENT. See CONDOMINIUM.
   ZONING CERTIFICATE. A document issued by the responsible authority
authorizing the use of lots, structures, uses of land and structures, and the
characteristics of the uses.
   ZONING DISTRICT MAP. The Zoning District Map or maps of the village together
with all amendments subsequently adopted.
   ZONING PERMIT. See ZONING CERTIFICATE.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998; Ord. 1324, passed 5-17-2005; Ord. 1391, passed 5-
15-2007)
ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS
§ 153.020 DIVISION ON VILLAGE.
   The village is hereby divided into districts under four general categories
which shall be known as: “Open Space Districts”, “Residential Districts”,
“Commercial Districts”, and “Industrial Districts”.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.021 OPEN SPACE DISTRICTS.
   “A” Agriculture: land which is level or gently rolling and is best reserved
for agricultural and other rural purposes.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.022 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   “R-A” Rural Residential. For low density residential development which
may or may not have community water and sewerage services.
   (B)   “R-1” Single-Family Residential. For relatively low density
residential development which may or may not have community water and sewerage
facilities developed.
   (C)   “R-2” Single-Family Residential. For medium density residential
development served by community water and sewerage services.
   (D)   “R-3” Multiple-Family Residential. For moderately high density
residential development which has ready access to most community facilities.
Community water and sewerage facilities are required.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.023 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   “C-1” Neighborhood Commercial. Areas for small local business with
convenience-type goods such as are handled in small food markets and
drugstores, plus personal services such as barber shops and beauty salons. Uses
in these areas must be compatible with surrounding residential uses and not be
large generators of traffic. All uses and activities shall be inside buildings
unless related to the existing primary use of the property.
   (B)   “C-2” General Commercial. Areas of general business, highway business,
and office-type business located along major thoroughfares which provide sales
and services. All uses and activities shall be inside buildings unless related
to the existing primary use of the property.
   (C)   “C-3” Central Business District. Areas of general business,
neighborhood business, and office- type business concentrated in the core area
of the village. All uses and activities shall be inside buildings unless
related to the existing primary use of the property.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.024 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   “M-1” Light Industrial. Areas which, because of their access to
transportation and community services, and because of the nature of their light
industrial operation, with restricted manufacturing operations, research
facilities, and offices of a restricted nature, will have little or no
detrimental effects on neighboring land uses.
   (B)   “M-2” Heavy Industrial. Areas which, because of their access to
transportation and community services, and isolation from other land uses, can
accommodate industrial uses which might cause detrimental effects in other
areas.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.025 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the district are shown upon the map which is made a
part of this chapter, which map is designated as the “Zoning District Map”. The
zoning district map and all of the notations, references, and other information
shown thereon, are a part of this chapter and have the same force and effect as
if the zoning district map and all of the notations, references, and other
information shown thereon were all fully set forth or described herein, the
original of which zoning district map is properly attested and is on file with
the Village Council.
   (B)   In the event that the Official Zoning District Map becomes damaged,
destroyed, or lost, the Village Council may by ordinance adopt a new official
zoning district map which shall supersede the prior official zoning district
map.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.026 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The district boundary lines on said zoning district map are intended
to follow either centerlines of streets or alleys or lot lines; and where the
districts designated on the zoning district map are bounded approximately by
such alley or lot line, such alley or lot line shall be construed to be the
boundary of the district unless such boundary is otherwise indicated on the
zoning district map.
   (B)   In the case of unsubdivided property, wherever a district is indicated
as a strip adjacent to or paralleling an adjacent street or highway, the depth
of such strip shall be 250 feet measured at right angles from the street or
highway line and the length of the frontage shall be the entire tract of land
along such street or highway unless otherwise indicated.
   (C)   In the case of the vacation of a street, alley, watercourse, or other
right-of-way, the abutting zoning classification on each side thereof shall
automatically be extended to the centerline of said vacated street, alley,
watercourse, or right-of-way.
   (D)   Where boundaries appear to approximately follow such aforesaid lines
and are not more than ten feet distant therefrom, such lines shall be construed
to be the boundary lines unless specifically shown otherwise.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 153.040 INTERPRETATION.
   The permitted and conditional uses for each district are shown in the
following tabulations which shall constitute this subchapter. The
interpretation of uses given in categorical terms shall be as defined in §
153.009. Uses not specifically listed or interpreted by the Board to be
included categorically under this subchapter shall not be permitted, except by
action of the Planning Commission and the Village Council.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.041 “A” AGRICULTURAL.
   Permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Agriculture;
   (B)   Dwelling, one-family;
   (C)   Nursery, plant materials;
   (D)   Home occupation;
   (E)   Public uses;
   (F)   Accessory uses;
   (G)   Conditional uses requiring Board approval;
   (H)   Airports;
   (I)   Cemeteries; and
   (J)   Off-premises signs.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.042 “R-A” RURAL RESIDENTIAL.
   Permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Dwelling, one-family;
   (B)   Home occupation;
   (C)   Public uses;
   (D)   Accessory uses;
   (E)   Conditional uses requiring Board approval;
   (F)   Athletic fields;
   (G)   Bed and breakfast;
   (H)   Cemeteries;
   (I)   Churches;
   (J)   Family day care home, Type A;
   (K)   Golf courses; and
   (L)   Parks and playgrounds.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.043 “R-1” SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   Permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Dwelling, one-family;
   (B)   Churches;
   (C)   Home occupation;
   (D)   Public uses;
   (E)   Accessory uses;
   (F)   Conditional uses requiring Board approval;
   (G)   Bed and breakfast;
   (H)   Churches;
   (I)   Family day care home, Type A; and
   (J)   Golf courses.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.044 “R-2” SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Permitted uses include the following:
      (1)   Dwelling, one-family;
      (2)   Home occupation;
      (3)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (4)   Public uses; and
      (5)   Accessory uses.
   (B)   Conditional uses requiring Board approval include the following:
      (1)   Athletic fields;
      (2)   Bed and breakfast;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Churches;
      (5)   Dwelling, two-family;
      (6)   Family day care home, Type A;
      (7)   Golf courses;
      (8)   Libraries; and
      (9)   Schools.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.045 “R-3” MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Permitted uses include the following:
      (1)   Dwelling, two-family;
      (2)   Dwelling, multiple-family;
      (3)   Child day care center;
      (4)   Public uses; and
      (5)   Accessory uses.
   (B)   Conditional uses requiring Board approval include the following:
      (1)   Clubs;
      (2)   Elderly housing facility;
      (3)   Assisted living facility;
      (4)   Nursing home; and
      (5)   Semi-public uses.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.046 “C-1” NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Permitted uses include the following:
      (1)   Business, neighborhood;
      (2)   Child day care center;
      (3)   Clinics;
      (4)   Libraries;
      (5)   Mortuaries;
      (6)   Personal services;
      (7)   Public service facility;
      (8)   Public uses;
      (9)   Professional activities; and
      (10)   Recreational facilities.
   (B)   Conditional uses requiring Board approval include the following:
      (1)   Convenience gas station;
      (2)   Clubs; and
      (3)   Dwelling, single-family.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.047 “C-2” GENERAL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Permitted uses include the following:
      (1)   Automobile service station;
      (2)   Automotive repair;
      (3)   Automotive, travel trailer, and farm implement sales;
      (4)   Banks and office-type businesses;
      (5)   Business, neighborhood;
      (6)   Business, general;
      (7)   Business, highway;
      (8)   Business, office-type;
      (9)   Child day care center;
      (10)   Commercial entertainment facilities;
      (11)   Convenience gas station;
      (12)   Hospitals and clinics;
      (13)   Hotels and motels;
      (14)   Mortuaries;
      (15)   Nursing homes;
      (16)   Personal services;
      (17)   Professional activities;
      (18)   Public uses;
      (19)   Recreational facilities;
      (20)   Restaurants, standard and fast food;
      (21)   Trade or technical schools; and
      (22)   Animal care facilities.
   (B)   Conditional uses requiring Board approval include the following:
clubs.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.048 “C-3” CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses include the following include the following:
      (1)   Banks and office-type businesses;
      (2)   Business, neighborhood;
      (3)   Business, general;
      (4)   Hotels and motels;
      (5)   Personal service;
      (6)   Professional activities;
      (7)   Public uses;
      (8)   Restaurants, standard; and
      (9)   Trade or technical schools.
   (B)   Conditional uses requiring Board approval include the following:
      (1)   Dwelling, one-family;
      (2)   Dwelling, two-family;
      (3)   Dwelling, multiple-family; and
      (4)   Clubs.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.049 “M-1” LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Permitted uses include the following:
      (1)   Business services;
      (2)   Business, wholesale;
      (3)   Food processing;
      (4)   Manufacturing, light;
      (5)   Professional activities;
      (6)   Public service facility;
      (7)   Research activities; and
      (8)   Animal care facilities.
   (B)   Conditional uses requiring Board approval include the following:
      (1)   Business, highway;
      (2)   Hospitals;
      (3)   Manufacturing, general;
      (4)   Manufacturing, restricted;
      (5)   Recreational facilities;
      (6)   Self-service storage facilities; and
      (7)   Warehousing activities.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.050 “M-2” HEAVY INDUSTRIAL.
   Permitted uses include the following:
   (A)   Business, wholesale;
   (B)   Food processing;
   (C)   Maintenance and storage facilities;
   (D)   Manufacturing, general;
   (E)   Manufacturing, light;
   (F)   Manufacturing, heavy;
   (G)   Manufacturing, restricted;
   (H)   Public service facility; and
   (I)   Warehousing activities.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.065 BASIC YARD, AREA, AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS FOR DWELLINGS.
   The following schedule establishes minimum yard and area and maximum lot
coverage and height requirements for dwellings and structures accessory to
dwellings by district.
         Lot Area  Lot Width Front Yard Rear Yard  Side Yard  Max. Lot  Max.
District (Sq. Ft)  (Ft.)     (Ft.)      (Ft.)      (Ft.)(3)   Coverage  Height
                                                              (%)(4)    (Ft.)
         Lot Area  Lot Width Front Yard Rear Yard  Side Yard  Max. Lot  Max.
District (Sq. Ft)  (Ft.)     (Ft.)      (Ft.)      (Ft.)(3)   Coverage  Height
                                                              (%)(4)    (Ft.)
A        1 Acre    150       35         30         10         25        35
R-A      12,000    90        35         30         10         25        35
R-1      8,400     70        35         30         10         25        35
R-2      6,000     50        35         30         10         50        35
R-3      3,500(1)  NA        35         30         10         40        35
C-1      -         -         35         15         10         50        35
C-2      -         -         35         15         10         50        45
C-3      -         -         35         15         (2)        NA        35
M-l      -         -         35         15         10         -         45
M-2      -         -         50         15         10         -         45
Notes:
(1) Per dwelling unit.
(2) When abutting a Residential District, the minimum side yard shall be the
same as required in the abutting district; otherwise, no side yard is required.
(3) Required side yards may be reduced to zero for zero-lot line developments
subject to the approval of a site plan or subdivision by the Planning
Commission.
(4) Includes all dwellings and structures accessory to dwellings on property.
(5) No structure located within the C-3 District shall be occupied or used as a
dwelling on the ground floor or at street level.
NA: Not applicable.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998; Ord. 1432, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 153.066 FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR DWELLINGS.
   The floor area per unit in dwellings erected on any lot shall not be less
than that established by the following table. In determining floor area, only
the area used for living quarters shall be counted. Garages, carports, porches,
and basements are to be excluded.
                  Single-               Multi-Family
         Single-  Family                                               Three or
District Family   Condo      Two-Family Efficiency One     Two Bedroom More
         Detached (Zero- Lot                       Bedroom             Bedrooms
                  Line)
                  Single-               Multi-Family
         Single-  Family                                               Three or
District Family   Condo      Two-Family Efficiency One     Two Bedroom More
         Detached (Zero- Lot                       Bedroom             Bedrooms
                  Line)
A        1,500    -          -          -          -       -           -
R-A      1,500    -          -          -          -       -           -
R-l      1,500    -          -          -          -       -           -
R-2      1,500    -          1,000(1)   -          -       -           -
                             (2)
R-3      -        1,000      1,000(2)   500        600     700         800
C-3      1,500(1) 750(1)     750(1)(2)  500(1)     600(1)  700(1)      800(1)
All figures are in square feet.
Notes:
(1) Conditional use
(2) Per dwelling unit
 
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.067 HEIGHT REGULATIONS FOR INDUSTRIAL, OFFICE, INDUSTRIAL, AND APARTMENT
BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   The height regulations prescribed herein shall not apply to television and
radio towers, church spires, belfries, monuments, tanks, water and fire towers
or scenery lofts, cooling towers, ornamental towers and spires, chimneys, silos
and similar structures, elevator bulkheads, smokestacks, conveyors, and flag
poles, except where the height of such structures will constitute a hazard to
the safe landing and takeoff of aircraft at an established airport.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.068 EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD.
   Any lot of record 60 feet or wider existing at the effective date of this
chapter in the “R-1” District may be used for the erection of a single-family
dwelling even though its area and width are less than the minimum requirements
set forth herein. Each side yard shall be a minimum of ten feet. Where two
adjacent lots of record with less than the required area and width are held by
one owner, the Board may require that the lot be combined and used for one main
building. In either case, the prevailing setback shall be met. Where three or
more contiguous unimproved lots of record with less than the required area and
width are held by one owner, the Board may restrict the use to fewer lots to
permit compliance with minimum yard requirements.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.069 ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS.
   Open structures such as porches, canopies, balconies, platforms, carports,
and covered patios, and similar architectural projections, shall be considered
a part of the building to which attached and shall not project into the
required minimum front, side, or rear yard.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.070 SPECIAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lots having frontage on more than one street shall provide the
required front yard along all streets.
   (B)   No accessory buildings shall be located in any front or side yard
except under unusual circumstances where such activity shall not conflict with
the intent and purpose of this chapter, or where enforcement shall result in
extreme hardship. Either exception shall require approval of the Board.
Accessory buildings such as garages may be located in the rear yard, provided
such buildings are set back at least three feet from the side lot lines and six
feet from the rear lot lines.
   (C)   No accessory uses or structures, except off-street parking incident to
the principal use, nor material or equipment storage shall be located in any
required front yard without approval of the Board.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.071 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY ACROSS CORNER LOTS.
   In any district on any corner lot, no fence, structure, or planting shall be
erected or maintained within 30 feet of the “corner” at a height greater than
two and one-half feet above curb or street grade, or so as to interfere with
traffic visibility across the corner. The CORNER shall be the point of
intersection of the two right-of-way lines.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 153.085 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. In all districts, in connection with every
industrial, commercial, institutional, recreational, residential, or other use,
there shall be provided, at any time any building or structure is erected or is
enlarged or increased in capacity, off-street parking spaces for automobiles in
accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Each off-street parking space shall have a width of not less than
ten feet and a minimum length of 18 feet exclusive of access drives or aisles,
and shall be of usable shape and condition.
      (2)   There shall be adequate provision for ingress and egress to all
parking spaces. Where a lot does abut on a public or private alley or easement
of access, there shall be provided an access drive not less than eight feet in
width in the case of a dwelling, and not less than 20 feet in width in all
other cases, leading to the parking or storage or loading or unloading spaces
required hereunder.
   (B)   Number of spaces required. The number of off-street parking spaces to
be provided shall not be less than the following.
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
Adult day care                          One for every 150 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
Assisted living facility                One for every four beds
                                        Five for each lane; plus one additional
Bowling alley                           space for each 200 square feet of area
                                        used for eating, drinking, or other
                                        recreation
Child day care or nursery school        Six or two for each classroom,
                                        whichever is greater
Church or temple                        One for each five seats in main
                                        auditorium
Commercial golf course                  40 for each nine holes plus one for
                                        each employee
Community center, library, museum, or   Ten plus one additional for each 300
art gallery, or similar establishment   square feet of floor area in excess of
                                        2,000 square feet
                                        Two plus one additional for each 200
Furniture or appliance store, hardware  square feet of floor area over 1,000
store, wholesale establishments,        square feet with a minimum of four
machinery or equipment sales and        spaces required plus space to
service, or similar establishment       accommodate all trucks and other
                                        vehicles used in connection therewith
Hospital                                One for each bed
Manufacturing or industrial             One for each two employees on the
establishment, research or testing      maximum working shift, plus space to
laboratory, dairy processing, bakery,   accommodate all trucks and other
bottling plant, warehouse, or similar   vehicles used in connection therewith
establishment
                                        One for each 125 square feet of floor
Medical and dental offices and clinics  area with a minimum of four spaces
                                        required
                                        One for each 50 square feet of floor
Mortuary or funeral home                space in slumber rooms, parlors, or
                                        individual funeral service rooms
One-family units                        Two for each dwelling
Personal services other than barber
shops, beauty parlors, and health       One for each 150 square feet of floor
salons and professional activities      area with a minimum of four spaces
other than medical and dental offices   required
and clinics
                                        One for each person employed therein
                                        plus one for each 150 square feet of
Printing or plumbing shop or similar    floor area, with a minimum of four
service establishment                   spaces required plus space to
                                        accommodate all trucks and other
                                        vehicles used in connection therewith
Private club, golf club, or lodge, or   One for each four members
similar establishment
Restaurants, night clubs, cafes or
similar recreation or amusement
establishments, dance halls, assembly   One for each 75 square feet of floor
halls, or exhibition halls, without     area
fixed seats, barber shops, beauty
parlors, and health salons
Retail business, shopping center, or    One for each 150 square feet of gross
business service establishment except   floor area plus one for each two
as otherwise specified herein           employees on the maximum work shift
Rooming or boarding house, hotel or     One for each sleeping room or suite
motel, or dormitory
Sanitarium, convalescent home, home for One for each two beds
the aged, or similar institutions
                                        One for each five seats in auditorium
School (except high school or college)  or main assembly room, or two for each
                                        classroom, whichever is greater
Theater or auditorium (except school    One for each five seats or each ten
auditorium), sports arena, stadium or   lineal feet of bench seating spaces
gymnasium, or similar venue
Two-family and multiple dwellings       Two for each dwelling unit
 
   (C)   Interpretation. The following rules shall govern the determination of
spaces required.
      (1)   FLOOR AREA shall mean the gross floor area of the specified use.
The outside wall dimensions shall be used in determining the area of a
structure.
      (2)   Fractional numbers shall be increased to the next whole number.
      (3)   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned
herein shall be the same as required for a use of similar nature.
      (4)   Whenever a building or use constructed or established after the
effective date of this chapter is changed or enlarged in floor area, number of
employees, number of dwelling units, seating capacity, or otherwise, to create
a need for an increase of 10% or more in the number of existing parking spaces,
such spaces shall be provided on the basis of the enlargement or change.
Whenever a building or use existing prior to the effective date of this chapter
is enlarged to the extent of 50% or more in floor area or in the area used,
said building or use shall then and thereafter comply with the parking
requirements set forth herein.
      (5)   One additional space of proper size and construction over and above
the parking space requirements of this section shall be provided for each
additional operational motor vehicle owned and/or continuously stored on a
residential property by the resident or owner.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.086 SPECIAL PARKING PROVISIONS.
   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public, commercial, or private
parking lot shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Screening and landscaping. Off-street parking areas for more than ten
vehicles shall be effectively screened on each side which adjoins or faces
premises situated in any “A” or “R” District, or institutional premises, by a
fence of acceptable design. Such fence shall be not less than four feet or more
than six feet in height and shall be maintained in good condition without any
advertising thereon. The space between such wall or fence and the lot line of
the adjoining premises in any “A” or “R” District shall be landscaped with
grass, hardy shrubs, or evergreen ground cover and maintained in good
condition. In lieu of such wall, or fence, a strip of land not less than ten
feet in width, and planted and maintained with an evergreen hedge or dense
planting of evergreen shrubs not less than four feet in height or more than six
feet in height, may be substituted.
   (B)   Minimum distance and setbacks. No part of any parking area for more
than ten vehicles shall be closer than 20 feet to any dwelling, school,
hospital, or other institution for human care located on an adjoining lot,
unless separated by an acceptably designed screen. In no case shall any part of
a parking area be closer than five feet to any established street or alley
right-of-way. For residential uses, access drives shall have a minimum side
yard of three feet from the boundary lines of adjoining properties. For
nonresidential uses, access drives shall have a minimum side yard requirement
of 25 feet and a minimum rear yard requirement of 40 feet. The wall or hedge
required in division (A) above shall be set back from each street, the same as
if it were a building wall, so as to observe the front yard requirements of
this chapter.
   (C)   Joint use. Two or more nonresidential uses may jointly provide and use
parking spaces when their hours of operation do not normally overlap, provided
that a written agreement, approved by the Solicitor and accepted by the Zoning
Board of Appeals, shall be filed with the application for a zoning certificate.
   (D)   Other locations. Parking spaces may be located within 300 feet on a
lot other than that containing the principal use with the approval of the
Zoning Board of Appeals, provided a written agreement, approved by the Village
Solicitor and accepted by the Zoning Board of Appeals, shall be filed with the
application for a zoning certificate.
   (E)   Surfacing. Any off-street parking area shall be graded for proper
drainage and surfaced so as to provide a durable surface constructed of one of
the following materials: asphalt; concrete; or tar and chip.
   (F)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in
any “A” or “R” District.
   (G)   Approved parking areas. All vehicles parked off-street shall be parked
in an approved parking area constructed according to the requirements of
division (E) above. All vehicles shall not be parked in front, side, or rear
yards except in approved parking areas.
   (H)   Disabled vehicles. The parking of a disabled and/or unlicensed vehicle
within a Residential District for a period of more than two weeks shall be
prohibited, except that such vehicle may be stored in an enclosed garage or
other accessory building, provided that no business shall be conducted in
connection therewith while such vehicle is parked or stored.
   (I)   Truck parking. Truck tractors and/or truck trailers shall not be
parked, except for making deliveries, in any “A”, “R”, or “C” Districts; except
for agricultural purposes.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL USES
§ 153.100 PARKING AND STORING OF BOATS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, UTILITY
EQUIPMENT, AND MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Parking and storing of mobile homes. Parking or storing of a mobile
home on any residential property for 72 hours or more shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Parking or storing of recreational and utility equipment. Any owner of
recreational and utility equipment may park or store such equipment on
residential property subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Recreational and utility equipment parked or stored shall be owned
by the occupant of the residence, shall not have fixed connections to
electricity, water, gas, or sanitary sewer facilities, and at no time shall
this equipment be used for living or housekeeping purposes.
      (2)   If the recreational or utility equipment is parked or stored
outside of a garage, it shall be parked or stored to the rear of the front line
of the building. The setback requirement in the side or rear yard shall be a
minimum of three feet. On one lot there shall be no more than two pieces of
equipment parked or stored outside. A mounted piece of equipment is construed
as one piece; disassembled as two pieces.
      (3)   Not withstanding the provisions of division (B)(2) above,
recreational and utility equipment may be parked anywhere on the premises for
loading and unloading purposes for a period of not more than 72 hours.
      (4)   All recreational and utility equipment must be kept in good repair.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.101 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   A private swimming pool shall be any pool, lake, or open tank not
located within a completely enclosed building and containing, or normally
capable of containing, water to a depth at any point greater than one and one-
half feet.
   (B)   No such swimming pool, exclusive of portable swimming pools with a
diameter less than 12 feet or with an area of less than 100 square feet, shall
be allowed in any “A” or “R” District except as an accessory use and unless it
complies with the following conditions and requirements:
      (1)   The pool is no greater than 1,200 square feet in surface area of
water and no more than 12 feet in depth;
      (2)   The pool is intended and is to be used solely for the enjoyment of
the occupants of the principal use of the property on which it is located;
      (3)   The pool, including any walks or paved areas or accessory
structures adjacent thereto, shall not be constructed so as to extend into the
required front or side yards, nor may it be located closer than ten feet to any
property line of the property on which it is located;
      (4)   The swimming pool, or the entire property on which it is located,
shall be so walled or fenced so as to prevent uncontrolled access by children
from the street or from adjacent properties. Said fence or wall shall be not
less than four feet in height and shall be maintained in good condition with a
gate and lock, with a latch on any gate on the inside thereof, preferably out
of the reach of small children; and
      (5)   As an alternative to installing a separate fence or wall around an
above ground pool, the wall of the pool and, if necessary, a railing built
around the top of the pool wall to a height not less than four feet, may be
considered the enclosure for the pool. All access ladders, stairs, or similar
apparatus for this type of pool shall be removed when the pool is not in use or
is left unattended.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.102 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   In an “R-3” District a residence may be converted to accommodate an
increased number of dwelling units provided:
   (A)   If the building is to be altered on the outside, the yards shall not
be reduced to less than the yard dimensions required by the zoning regulations
for new structures in that district;
   (B)   The lot area per family is equal to the lot area requirements for new
multi-family structures in that district; and
   (C)   The number of square feet of living area per family unit is not less
than that which is required for new construction in that district.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.103 FAMILY DAY CARE FACILITIES.
   In all “R” Districts and “C-1” and “C-2” Districts, a permanent residence
may be used to provide day care services. All day care operations shall conform
to applicable local and state licensing provisions.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES
§ 153.115 PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. No land or building in any district shall be used or
occupied in any manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious, or
otherwise objectionable element or condition so as to adversely affect the
surrounding area or adjoining premises; provided, that any use permitted by
this chapter may be undertaken and maintained if acceptable measures and
safeguards are employed to limit dangerous and objectionable elements to
acceptable limits as established by the following performance requirements.
      (1)   Fire hazards. Any activity involving the use or storage of
flammable or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate fire-fighting
and fire suppression equipment and by such safety devices that are normally
used in the handling of any such material. Such hazards shall be kept removed
from adjacent activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential
danger involved.
      (2)   Radioactivity or electrical disturbance. No activity shall emit
dangerous radioactivity at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely
affecting the operation at any point of any equipment other than that of the
creator of such disturbance.
      (3)   Noise. Noise which is objectionable as determined by the Board,
because of intermittence, beat, frequency, or shrillness, shall be muffled or
otherwise controlled. Noises may equal but shall not exceed average street
traffic noise during such periods that traffic noise exceeds the following
decibel readings as measured at the boundary or boundaries of the district or
at any point in any adjacent “A”, “C”, or “R” District:
         (a)   “M-1”: 75 decibels; and
         (b)   “M-2”: 85 decibels.
      (4)   Vibration. No continuous vibration shall be permitted which will
have the effect of destroying adjoining property and is found to be detrimental
to the legal use of any adjoining lot or property.
      (5)   Smoke. Smoke shall not be emitted with a density greater than No. 2
on the Ringlemann Chart as issued by the U.S. Bureau of Mines. Smoke of a
density of No. 4 on the Ringlemann Chart shall be permitted for a period of up
to eight minutes in each hour, provided the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Breakdown of equipment;
         (b)   Starting new fires; and
         (c)   Clean-up time.
      (6)   Odors. No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which
produces a public nuisance or hazard on any adjoining lot or property.
      (7)   Air pollution. No pollution of air by fly ash, dust, vapor, or
other substances shall be permitted which can cause damage to health, animals,
vegetation, or other property, or which can cause damaging soiling.
      (8)   Glare. No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
visible from any property outside an “M” District or from any public street,
road, or highway.
      (9)   Erosion. No erosion, by either wind or water, shall be permitted
which will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
      (10)   Water pollution. Pollution of water shall be subject to the
requirements and regulations established by the state’s EPA.
   (B)   Enforcement provisions. The responsible authority or Zoning Board of
Appeals, prior to the issuance of a zoning certificate, may require the
submission of statements and plans indicating the manner in which dangerous and
objectionable elements involved in processing and in equipment operations are
to be eliminated or reduced to acceptable limits and tolerances.
   (C)   Measurement procedures. Methods and procedures for the determination
of the existence of any dangerous and objectionable elements shall conform to
applicable standard measurement procedures published by the American Standards
Association, Inc., New York, N.Y.; the Manufacturing Chemists Association,
Inc., Washington, D.C.; and the United States Bureau of Mines.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.116 SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these sign regulations is to provide standards
for the placement, display, and use of signs. These standards are designed to
enhance the aesthetic environment of the village, improve pedestrian and
traffic safety, and minimize possible adverse effects of signs on nearby public
and private property.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided by this chapter, all new signs shall
require a certificate. Application for sign certificates shall be made to the
responsible authority. Payment of fees shall be in accordance with the permit
fee schedule. No certificate is required for the maintenance of a sign or for a
change of copy on painted, printed, or changeable copy signs, so long as the
sign area or structure is not modified in any way for the existing owner and/or
tenant.
      (2)   Each application for a zoning certificate shall include a drawing
of the proposed sign showing the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of the owner of the sign;
         (b)   Street address or location of the property on which the sign is
to be located, along with the name and address of the property owner;
         (c)   The type of sign or sign structure as defined in this chapter;
         (d)   A site plan with dimensions showing the proposed location of the
sign with the measurements from all property lines along with the location of
all existing signs and buildings on the same premises and adjacent roadways;
         (e)   A drawing of the proposed sign showing the following
specifications: dimensions; height; design; copy; illumination; and
construction details (materials, structural supports, and electrical components
of the proposed sign); and
         (f)   Computations showing total number and area of existing and
proposed signs on the lot.
      (3)   No sign shall project into any public right-of-way or obstruct
traffic visibility at street or highway intersections.
      (4)   If a sign is installed, constructed, or maintained in violation of
any of the terms of this chapter, the responsible authority shall notify the
owner or lessee thereof to alter such sign so as to comply with this chapter.
Any owner, lessee, or sign contractor who installs a new sign without a permit
is subject to three times the normal fee schedule.
      (5)   All nonconforming signs, sign structures, and off-premises signs
will be permitted to remain in place on the same premises of such use. When the
existing use is no longer in business, all nonconforming signs shall be
removed. All new signs on the premises shall conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
      (6)   All signs and advertising structures except as hereinafter modified
may be illuminated internally or by reflected light, provided the source of
light is not directly visible and is so arranged so as to reflect away from the
adjoining premises, and provided that such illumination shall not be placed as
to cause a hazard to traffic or conflict with traffic control signs or lights.
      (7)   One temporary sign not exceeding an aggregate of 50 square feet,
announcing the opening of a business in a Commercial or Industrial District is
permitted for one, 30-day period.
      (8)   A temporary sign (construction sign) not exceeding an aggregate of
50 square feet advertising the construction of a building including the
contractor, architect, engineer, financial institution, and the like is
permitted in a Commercial or Industrial District during the construction
period. Within the Agricultural and Residential Districts, a temporary sign
(construction sign) not exceeding an aggregate of 32 square feet is permitted
during the construction period.
      (9)   Directional signs shall be permitted for off-street parking areas,
provided:
         (a)   Height not to exceed 42 inches from grade level; and
         (b)   Each sign shall not exceed five square feet per display area.
   (C)   Prohibited signs. The following types of signs are prohibited in all
districts:
      (1)   Abandoned signs;
      (2)   Animated signs. No sign shall be permitted which is animated by
means of flashing, blinking, or traveling lights or any other means not
providing constant illumination. Public service information signs and
changeable copy signs are not considered animated signs;
      (3)   Search lights, rotating signs, sandwich board signs, moving
figures, balloons, or other gas- filled figures;
      (4)   Signs placed on vehicles or trailers which are parked or located
for the primary purpose of displaying said sign;
      (5)   Any sign or other object attracting attention to a business which
interferes with the safety of the traveling public;
      (6)   Roof signs; and
      (7)   Pole signs in “A” and “R” Districts.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following types of signs are exempt from sign permit
requirements:
      (1)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state, or local law or regulation;
      (2)   Any sign inside a building;
      (3)   Works of art that do not include a commercial message;
      (4)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message;
      (5)   Traffic directional signs on private property which contain no
commercial message;
      (6)   Non-illuminated real estate signs not exceeding six square feet in
sign area in “A” and “R” Districts and 32 square feet in sign area in “C” and
“M” Districts that advertise the sale, rental, or lease of the premises upon
which such sign is located;
      (7)   Non-illuminated signs not exceeding 32 square feet per face in sign
area which advertise the sale or lease of a subdivision or undeveloped acreage;
      (8)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings, and the date of
construction placed on the building, provided that such signs do not exceed two
square feet in area; and
      (9)   The following temporary signs. These signs shall be removed no
later than five days after completion of the event or transaction:
      (a)   Garage/yard sale signs; and
         (b)   Public election and candidates signs.
   (E)   Signs in Agricultural and Residential Districts. Signs shall be
permitted as follows.
      (1)   One low-profile or one wall sign shall be allowed for each lot
which contains a main building other than a dwelling. Low-profile signs in “A”
and “R” Districts shall not exceed five feet in height measured from the ground
surface and shall be no higher than seven feet measured from the centerline of
the road and 32 square feet per face in area.
      (2)   Signs for home occupations shall not exceed eight square feet in
area and shall be wall mounted and flush against the wall.
      (3)   Signs for churches, schools, or other public or semi-public
buildings shall not exceed 32 square feet per face in area.
      (4)   At any entrance to a residential subdivision or multi-family
development there may be not more than two signs identifying such subdivision
or development and said signs shall be setback from the right-of-way line a
minimum distance of ten feet. The total sign area of a single sign located at a
single entrance shall not exceed 32 square feet, shall not exceed 42 inches in
height, and shall contain only the name of the subdivision or development. Any
subdivision entrance/identification sign proposed to be located within the
center of a boulevard entrance shall be located in a manner so as not to create
a traffic hazard from the standpoint of adequate sight distances.
      (5)   All signs permitted in divisions (E)(1) and (E)(3) above shall be
located a minimum distance of 25 feet from the right-of-way line and not less
than ten feet from any adjacent lot line.
   (F)   Signs in Commercial and Industrial Districts.
      (1)   Except as indicated, only one of each sign type listed below shall
be permitted per lot in Commercial and Industrial Districts.
                      Max. Size of   Max. Size of Max. Size of   Max. Size of
District Type of Sign Pole Sign (Sq. Wall Sign(1) Low Profile    Projecting
         Permitted    Ft.)           (2)          Sign (Sq. Ft.) Sign (Sq. Ft.)
                                                  (3)            (4)
                       Max. Size of Max. Size of Max. Size of   Max. Size of
District Type of Sign  Pole Sign    Wall Sign(1) Low Profile    Projecting
         Permitted     (Sq. Ft.)    (2)          Sign (Sq. Ft.) Sign (Sq. Ft.)
                                                 (3)            (4)
         Wall, low                  1.5 sq. ft.
         profile,                   per lineal
C-1      projecting,   40 per face  ft. of       40 per face    40
         pole                       building
                                    width
         Wall, low                  1.5 sq. ft.
         profile,                   per lineal
C-2      projecting,   100 per face ft. of       100 per face   40
         pole                       building
                                    width
         Wall, low                  1.5 sq. ft.
         profile,                   per lineal
C-3      projecting,   60 per face  ft. of       60 per face    40
         pole                       building
                                    width
                                    1.5 sq. ft.
         Wall, low                  per lineal
M-1      profile, pole 100 per face ft. of       50             NA
                                    building
                                    width
                       Max. Size of Max. Size of Max. Size of   Max. Size of
District Type of Sign  Pole Sign    Wall Sign(1) Low Profile    Projecting
         Permitted     (Sq. Ft.)    (2)          Sign (Sq. Ft.) Sign (Sq. Ft.)
                                                 (3)            (4)
                                    1.5 sq. ft.
         Wall, low                  per lineal
M-2      profile, pole 100 per face ft. of       50             NA
                                    building
                                    width
Notes:
(1) Lineal building width facing the rights-of-way; multiple wall signs are
permitted provided the combined square footage is within the wall sign size
limit indicated.
(2) Awning, backlit awning, and canopy signs are treated as wall signs for the
purposes of this table. The sign area for awning, backlit awning, and canopy
signs is the copy area.
(3) No low profile sign is permitted when a pole sign is used.
(4) No projecting sign is permitted when a pole sign is used.
 
      (2)   Pole signs and low profile signs on double frontage lots. If a
development is located on a lot that is bordered by two streets that do not
intersect at the lot’s boundaries (double front lot), then the development may
(subject to total sign area limitations in division (F)(1) above) have a pole
or low profile sign on each street.
      (3)   All pole signs shall be located at least ten feet from the right-
of-way line, not less than ten feet from any adjacent lot line, and may not
exceed a height of 30 feet.
      (4)   Low-profile signs shall be setback from the right-of-way line a
minimum distance of 15 feet and not less than ten feet from any adjacent lot
line.
      (5)   Exceptions to these regulations in specific cases may be authorized
by the Zoning Board of Appeals where there are practical difficulties or
hardships in carrying out the strict letter of this section providing each
exception is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the chapter and
in accordance with the procedures and provisions specified in §§
153.185 to 153.193. Hardship shall be based on physical limitations of the land
or structures and does not encompass financial considerations.
   (G)   Common signage plans for multiple uses.
      (1)   In lieu of the requirements elsewhere in this section, in
Commercial and Industrial Districts, when a structure contains more than one
business establishment, or when the owners of two or more contiguous lots
voluntarily agree to develop common signage, a common signage plan may be
submitted to the responsible authority.
      (2)   A common signage plan shall specify standards for consistency among
all signs affected by the plan in regard to:
         (a)   Color scheme;
         (b)   Lettering;
         (c)   Lighting;
         (d)   Location of signs;
         (e)   Material; and
         (f)   Sign proportion.
      (3)   Common signage plans may not exceed the following limitations:
         (a)   The total maximum aggregate area of all signs (pole, wall, low
profile, or projecting) shall not exceed either three square feet of sign per
lineal foot of street frontage, or 5% of the ground floor of the principal
building, or 1,000 square feet, whichever is less; and
         (b)   Maximum number of pole or low profile signs, pole or low profile
signs, are limited to one for each 500 feet of lot frontage.
   (H)   Off-premises sign. Off-premises signs are permitted in the M-1 and M-
2 Districts, subject to the following:
      (1)   Off-premises signs shall not exceed 32 square feet per sign face;
and
      (2)   Height of off-premises signs shall not exceed eight feet above
grade.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.117 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings and construction trailers used in conjunction with
construction work only may be permitted in any “C” or “M” District during the
period construction work is in progress, but such temporary buildings shall be
removed upon substantial completion of the construction work.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.118 OPEN STORAGE AND DISPLAY OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The open storage and display of material and equipment incident to
permitted or conditional uses in “C” or “M” Districts shall be permitted
provided the area used for open storage and display shall be effectively
screened from all adjoining properties in any “A” or “R” District by means of
walls, fences, or plantings. In no case shall this storage be maintained beyond
the front building line except for items displayed for sale or rental. Walls or
fences shall be a minimum of four feet in height without advertising thereon.
In lieu of such wall or fence, a strip of land not less than ten feet in width
and planted and maintained with an evergreen hedge or dense planting of
evergreen shrubs not less than four feet in height at the time of planting may
be substituted.
   (B)   The temporary open storage of contractor’s equipment and material
shall be permitted on the site upon which buildings or structures are being
erected or installed for the duration of the construction period. Storage of
such equipment and material beyond the date of completion of the project shall
be subject to a special permit authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.119 DAY CARE FACILITIES.
   Day care facilities operated as an accessory use to serve employees of a
principal use, located on-site and less than 5,000 square feet, shall not be
subject to any commercial site plan review beyond that required for the
principal use.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.120 ANIMAL CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Animal care facilities located in a “C-2” or “M-1” District shall be
contained within a building(s) and shall not have holding pens or enclosures
for housing animals external to any building.
   (B)   Accessory buildings, pens, or enclosures used for housing or
containing animals shall be a minimum of 50 feet from all property lines and/or
any dwelling unit.
   (C)   Suitable fencing or landscaping shall be installed around pens and/or
enclosures used for housing or containing animals.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL, AND INDUSTRIAL USES
§ 153.135 DISH ANTENNAS.
   (A)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation, trust, or other legal
entity shall construct a dish antenna without a permit, nor shall construction
commence before a permit is issued.
   (B)   The owner, or occupant with written permission from the owner, of any
lot, premises, or parcel of land within the village, who desires to construct a
dish antenna on said lot, premises, or land parcel, must first obtain a permit
to do so from the responsible authority or the agent thereof.
   (C)   The responsible authority shall issue such permit, provided the
applicant submits a written application upon forms provided and approved by the
Planning Commission, along with a plot plan of the lot, premises, or land
parcel attached, showing the exact location and dimensions of the proposed dish
antenna, a description of the kind of dish antenna proposed, and the exact
location and dimensions of all buildings or structures. Each application shall
specify, among other things, the name and address of the owner of the real
estate, the applicant, and the person to be permitted to construct the proposed
dish.
   (D)   The applicant shall submit with each application a sum in accordance
with scheduled fees established by Council which represents the permit fee. The
permit fee shall cover the costs of reviewing the construction plans,
inspecting the final construction, and processing the application.
   (E)   The following shall apply to the location of ground-mounted dish
antennas.
      (1)   No dish shall be constructed in any front or side yard, but shall
be constructed to the rear of the residence or main structure.
      (2)   The dish, including its concrete base slab or other substructure,
shall not be constructed less than ten feet from any main building; shall have
rear and side property line setbacks equal to or greater than the height of the
proposed structure, but in no case shall the rear and side yard setbacks be
less than eight feet from any property line or easement; and, in the case of a
corner lot, shall not project beyond the front yard required or existing on the
adjacent lot. In any “C” or “M” District, dish antennas shall not be located
closer than 15 feet to any public street.
      (3)   No dish shall be linked, physically or electronically, to a
receiver which is not located on the same lot, premises, or parcel of land as
is the dish.
      (4)   A dish shall not exceed a grade height of 15 feet.
      (5)   Wiring between a dish and a receiver shall be placed at least four
inches beneath the surface of the ground within rigid conduit.
      (6)   Such dish shall be designed to withstand a wind force of 75 mph
without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (7)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110v maximum power design and
be encased in protective guards.
      (8)   A dish must be bonded to a grounding rod.
   (F)   The following shall apply to the location of roof-mounted dish
antennas.
      (1)   Dishes shall be mounted directly upon the roof of a primary or
accessory structure as defined in the Building Code and shall not be mounted
upon appurtenances such as chimneys, trees, poles, or spires.
      (2)   A dish shall not exceed a height of more than four feet above the
roof upon which it is mounted.
      (3)   A dish shall not exceed three feet in diameter.
      (4)   A dish shall be designed to withstand a wind force of 85 mph
without the use of supporting guy wires.
      (5)   Any driving motor shall be limited to 110v maximum power design and
be encased in protective guards.
      (6)   A dish must be bonded to a grounding rod.
   (G)   If used for advertising purposes, a dish antenna shall be deemed to be
a sign and shall also be governed by the sign regulations applicable to the
property.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.136 PONDS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Ponds shall be permitted as a conditional use in the “A”, “R-A”,
and all “M” Districts on parcels of three acres or greater.
      (2)   All ponds shall require a permit and meet requirements of §
153.168, which includes written application for a zoning certificate (§
153.168(B)) accompanied by a site plan (§
153.168(C)). All parcels of five acres or less shall meet the additional
requirements of site plan review under §§
153.137 and
153.168(D) which includes site plan review by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Ponds shall conform to the U.S. Soil Conservation Service
specifications and recommendations.
      (4)   If a pond is deemed to pose a safety hazard because of increased
density of development in the vicinity of the parcel, the village may require
fencing be installed as specified under §
153.101(D) and (E), subject to the review of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (5)   Ponds which abut more than one lot and/or serve as an accessory use
for more than one lot, and all of the respective lots associated with the pond,
shall be platted in accordance with applicable subdivision regulations.
      (6)   Lots containing ponds used for drainage retention shall be platted
in accordance with applicable subdivision regulations.
   (B)   Area and design requirements.
      (1)   Minimum pond surface area shall be one-half acre. Maximum surface
area shall not exceed 25% of the net acreage of the parcel.
      (2)   The side slope of a pond shall be horizontal to vertical at a ratio
of three-to-one except where a beach is desired. The ratio shall be maintained
to a minimum depth of 17 feet.
      (3)   Beach areas may be sloped no less than at a horizontal to vertical
ratio of ten-to-one and shall not exceed 25% of the pond surface area.
      (4)   Ponds shall be graded not to exceed four feet in height so as not
to obstruct an adjoining property owner’s view. Excess dirt may be
redistributed on the parcel, but may not be removed from the site unless
determined in the site plan approval that it is deemed necessary for
landscaping or to provide adequate drainage of the site.
      (5)   To prevent effects of drainage to adjoining properties, a drainage
system shall be installed to accommodate overflows and surface drainage from
pond development, then diverted to a suitable outlet or drainage ditch.
   (C)   Setback.
      (1)   A pond shall have a 100-foot minimum setback from any roadway
right-of-way centerline.
      (2)   Ponds on parcels of five acres or less shall have a side yard
setback of not less than 10% of the width of the parcel, with a minimum setback
of 25 feet.
      (3)   A pond shall be located no closer than 100 feet to a septic tank or
leach field.
   (D)   Refilling. The refilling of an area which has been excavated for the
development of a pond shall be considered waste disposal and shall meet the
requirements as set forth by the County Board of Health for solid waste
disposal under R.C. § 3734.05.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.137 SITE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT - MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS AND
NONRESIDENTIAL USES.
   Site plan review and landscaping shall be required for new uses, or existing
uses, when a building or structure is erected, changed, or enlarged by 50% or
more or is 5,000 square feet or greater in floor area.
   (A)   Site plan review - basic requirements.
      (1)   A formal letter of submittal shall accompany the site plan. The
letter shall provide the name, address, and phone number of any parties who
should be informed of the progress of the request. Parties to be notified
should include the land owner, developer, attorney, architect, engineer,
landscape architect, or other appropriate consultant.
      (2)   All site plans shall have a title indicating the type of request
being made (e.g., a request for a zone change, special use permit, and the
like).
      (3)   The site plan shall be accompanied by a complete legal description
of the subject property and a general location sketch showing nearby section
lines and/or residential and major roadways.
      (4)   The site plan shall indicate the scale of the drawing and shall use
an engineer’s scale.
      (5)   The site plan shall have the north arrow pointing either toward the
top of the drawing or to the right side of the drawing.
      (6)   Ten blueline or blackline prints of the site plan on paper no
larger than 24 inches by 36 inches must be submitted. Detailed drawings other
than the site plan need not be submitted at this time for the site plan review
process.
   (B)   Site plan requirements.
      (1)   The site plan shall show the zoning classification(s) and existing
uses of the subject property and all abutting property. It shall also show the
approximate location of buildings and driveway locations opposite to and
adjacent to the subject property.
      (2)   The site plan shall indicate the dimensions of the property and
shall show the dimensions of existing and proposed buildings to be constructed.
The site plan shall indicate any building removals or other alterations to
occur on the property.
      (3)   The site plan shall indicate the distance of existing and proposed
structure(s) to the right-of-way line and the distances of the structure(s) to
the side and rear property lines.
      (4)   The site plan shall indicate by name all adjacent roadways. The
site plan shall show both right-of-way and pavement widths measured from the
centerline of the roadway.
      (5)   The site plan shall indicate the locations, size (height), and
material of all existing and proposed fencing and/or walls on the subject
property.
      (6)   The site plan shall show the location, height, and dimensions of
existing or proposed signs on the property.
      (7)   The site plan shall indicate the width(s) and location(s) of
existing or proposed sidewalks if any and drive approach aprons. The drive
approach width(s) shall be dimensioned where the apron meets the roadway
pavement and shall be dimensioned at the throat.
      (8)   Site plans shall show any ditches, creeks, or other natural
features that may affect the development of the property. Where appropriate,
the two-foot contours and the 100-year high water elevation shall be shown on
the site plan.
      (9)   The site plan shall show the existing and proposed method of storm
water drainage and/or areas to be used for storm water detention.
      (10)   The site plan shall show existing and proposed sanitary and storm
sewers, water mains, and the location(s) of fire hydrants if present.
      (11)   The site plan shall indicate the location of existing or proposed
off-street parking spaces and drive aisles with complete dimensions. The
drawing shall include the number and size of the proposed parking stalls
including handicap spaces. The type of pavement composition of the parking
area, i.e., treated gravel, asphalt, or concrete shall be indicated. If the
off-street parking area is located next to an existing parking area or on
another parcel, the method of circulation, if any between the two areas, shall
be shown.
      (12)   A site plan with a proposed drive-thru window operation shall
indicate where the vehicles will be lined-up and how many vehicles can be
stored at one time while waiting to use the order board and/or drive-up window.
   (C)   Landscaping.
      (1)   Landscaping shall be required along all road frontage.
      (2)   Depth of the landscaping strip shall be a minimum of 15 feet or 50%
of the required minimum yard depth, whichever is greater, as applicable under §
153.065.
      (3)   Landscaping shall be a minimum of four feet in height and a
sufficient height to shield the view of parking areas from adjacent roadways.
      (4)   Where uses are within, abut, or opposite an “A” or “R” District,
landscaping shall be required for those yards which are adjacent to the “A” or
“R” District. Landscaping shall be a minimum of six feet in height to
effectively shield the view from these respective adjacent parcels.
      (5)   Landscaping shall consist of natural materials such as plantings,
mounding, stone, walls or fences of wood, decorative stone, or masonry.
      (6)   Landscaping shall not obstruct visibility and shall be maintained
at a height not to exceed 36 inches within five feet of any street or road
right-of-way. Traffic visibility across corner lots shall be governed by §
153.071.
   (D)   Application procedure.
      (1)   Site plans shall be filed with the responsible authority.
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector shall transmit the site plan to the Planning
Commission for review and recommendation, and shall request professional
review, if deemed necessary.
      (3)   No permit shall be issued for any use or change in use prior to the
review and approval of the site plan by the Planning Commission. Conditions and
modifications may be attached to these plans.
      (4)   Any change in the site plan, after its approval, must be submitted
to the Planning Commission for review and shall require the approval of the
responsible authority.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.138 SPECIFICATIONS FOR FENCES AND WALLS.
   The following fence and wall specifications shall apply to all land uses in
all zoning districts.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FENCE. Any structure composed of wood, metal, stone, plastic, or other
natural and permanent material erected in such a manner and positioned as to
enclose or partially enclose any premises or any part of any premises.
Trellises or other structures supporting, or for the purpose of supporting,
vines, flowers, and other vegetation when erected in such position as to
enclose or partially enclose or separate any premises shall be included within
the definition of the word FENCE. Structures erected other than on lot lines or
within five feet of lot lines, which have solely an ornamental purpose and
which do not in fact serve the purpose of enclosing or partially enclosing
premises, separating premises from adjoining premises, hedges, retaining walls,
or radio-controlled fences, shall not be included within the definition of the
word FENCE.
      FENCE, OPEN. A fence constructed for its functional, ornamental, or
decorative effect and, when viewed at right angles, having not less than 50% of
its vertical surface area open to light and air. Open ornamental fences include
the following.
         (a)   FENCE, ACCENT. A fence that is used solely for ornamental
purpose and does not enclose or partially enclose an area.
         (b)   FENCE, CHAIN LINK. A commercial or industrial fence, usually
made of metal loops of wire interconnected in a series of joined links and
including vinyl plastic-coated or painted varieties.
         (c)   FENCE, ELECTRIFIED. All fences or structures, with a device or
object that emits or produces an electric charge, impulse, or shock when the
same comes into contact with any other object or any person, animal, or thing,
or which causes or may cause burns to any person or animal. So called wireless
or radio controlled fences that utilize radio signals and control collars are
excluded from this definition.
         (d)   FENCE, RADIO CONTROLLED. The use of insulated wire (typically
low voltage and located underground) to transmit a radio signal to a receiving
device. RADIO CONTROLLED FENCES are exempt from these regulations.
         (e)   WALL, RETAINING. A wall composed of wood, stone, brick, or other
masonry material designed to hold back a portion of higher ground from a lower
one. A RETAINING WALL permits two elevation levels to be placed adjacent to
each other with an abrupt vertical change between them.
         (f)   FENCE, SECURITY OR INDUSTRIAL. A fence made with metal wire
having sharp points, barbs, edges, or other attached devices designed to
discourage physical contact along its length.
         (g)   FENCE, SMOOTH RAIL, SPLIT RAIL, MILLED RAIL, OR CONTEMPORARY
RAIL. A fence constructed of narrow, whole or split, wooden timbers or boards
placed horizontally between upright supporting posts. SMOOTH RAIL, SPLIT RAIL,
MILLED RAIL, OR CONTEMPORARY RAIL FENCES may have supplemental wire fencing or
mesh attached to the interior of the fence. For the purpose of improved
containment, the opening size shall be not less than three inches by three
inches and designed in a horizontal grid.
         (h)   FENCE, WROUGHT IRON. A fence constructed of metal, including
aluminum, iron or steel, pipe, tubes, or bar stock and having some type of
decorative features or design. WROUGHT IRON FENCES shall not have pointed ends
exposed but may have finials with blunt ends.
      FENCE, PARTIALLY OPEN. A fence designed to offer a vertical, but not
totally blocked, visual separation. This fence is used where a low level of
screening is adequate to soften the impact of the use or where partial
visibility between areas is more important than a total visual screen.
Permitted PARTIALLY OPEN FENCES include the following.
         (a)   FENCE, ARBOR, OR TRELLIS. A fence of latticework used as a
screen or as a support for climbing plants.
         (b)   FENCE, PICKET. A partially open fence made of upright wooden or
vinyl poles or slats. This fence may be an open fence if the space between the
vertical boards is greater than the width of the boards.
      FENCE, SOLID. A fence or wall designed to inhibit public view and provide
seclusion and, when viewed at right angles, having more than 50% of its
vertical surface area closed to light and air. Permitted SOLID FENCES include
the following.
         (a)   FENCE, BOARD ON BOARD OR ALTERNATING BOARD ON BOARD. A fence
constructed of vertical wood boards or other natural and permanent material
with one-inch nominal size boards between, or upon, a frame of two-inch nominal
members and four by four nominal posts.
         (b)   FENCE, HEDGE. A row of dense closely spaced living plant
material composed of vines, trees, shrubs, bushes, or combination thereof.
         (c)   FENCE, LOUVER OR VENTILATING. A fence made of a series of wood
slats or other natural and permanent placed at an angle or positioned so as to
provide air but to deflect light perpendicular to its vertical plane.
         (d)   FENCE, SOLID PICKET. A fence made up of upright one-inch by two-
inch nominal wooden boards or other natural and permanent material that abut
one another, side by side with no openings. The top of the fence may be pointed
or blunt.
         (e)   FENCE, STOCKADE OR PALISADE. A fence constructed with a row of
large pointed stakes of wood or other natural and permanent material placed
upright against each other having more than 50% of the area of its vertical
plane closed to light or air.
         (f)   WALL. A solid fence constructed of stone, brick, or masonry.
   (B)   General requirements for fencing and walls.
      (1)   Fences and walls shall be permitted in any required yard, or along
the edge of any yard.
      (2)   Height regulations include the following. Except as otherwise
specifically permitted herein, no fence or wall shall exceed:
         (a)   Front yard. Three feet in height above the established grade
forward of the principal structure or in a required front yard;
         (b)   Side yard. Seven feet in height above the established grade in
the required side yard adjacent to the principal structure; and
         (c)   Rear yard. Seven feet in height in the required rear yard
projected forward to a line parallel to the rear side of the principal
structure.
      (3)   Supporting members for fences and walls shall be located so as not
to be visible from the adjoining property unless the fence is designed such
that the supporting members are identical in appearance on both sides of the
fence or wall.
      (4)   No fence or wall shall be constructed in any floodway, floodplain,
or drainage easement for any parcel or subdivision.
      (5)   All portions of the property shall remain accessible from outside
the fence area by means of a gate or other opening.
      (6)   The fence, wall, or hedge shall not be permitted to encroach upon
public rights-of-way or easements or no build zones, conservation/no disturb
zones.
      (7)   The fence, wall, or hedge shall not be located so as to adversely
affect the vision of drivers on the public streets or from driveways
intersecting public streets.
      (8)   The height of a fence shall be measured from the established grade
line to the highest point of the fence including posts and finials. The height
of the fence may not be artificially increased by the use of mounding unless
otherwise required by the zoning district regulations.
      (9)   In the event a property owner chooses placement of a fence on a
property line, the applicant shall certify to the responsible authority that
the property has been surveyed and that all corners or change in survey course
are established and readily discernible. In lieu of a survey, the applicant can
use a signed, notarized fence agreement, indicating acknowledgment of said
property line for fence placement between adjoining property owners.
   (C)   Specific requirements for individual types of fencing and walls.
      (1)   Open and partially open fences.
         (a)   Accent fences and picket fences. Accent fences and picket fences
shall be permitted in all zoning districts if limited to four feet in height
from grade and if designed only to partially enclose an area and serve only an
ornamental purpose. These fences may be used to enclose the entire perimeter of
the rear yard if the total lot area is greater than 30,000 square feet.
         (b)   Arbors; trellises. Arbors or trellises shall be permitted in all
zoning districts. Arbors or trellises, which are detached from the building,
may encroach on a required side yard which abuts a street and forward of the
structure provided that:
            1.   The maximum height is eight feet;
            2.   The maximum width is five feet;
            3.   The maximum depth is three feet; and
            4.   The surface of the arbor or trellis shall be at least 50%
open.
         (c)   Chain link and security or industrial fences. A chain link fence
shall be permitted in all districts with the exception of A & R zoning areas
where chain link fences are prohibited in front yards. Security and industrial
fences shall only be permitted in Agricultural or Industrial Zoning Districts.
Such fences may not be placed forward of the primary structure and are
restricted to side and rear yards. Such fences may be erected parallel to and
on, or approximately on, the common property line to a height not exceeding
seven feet above the established grade
      (2)   Solid fences. Solid fences shall be permitted in all zoning
districts only in rear yards or to enclose a deck or patio. Solid fences shall
not be used to enclose the entire perimeter of the property. Solid fences shall
not be located within a required side yard and shall be of an approved type.
         (a)   Brick, stone, or masonry walls. Brick, stone, or masonry walls
are permitted forward of the building line but cannot exceed three feet in
height.
         (b)   Hedges. Hedges shall be permitted in all zoning districts.
Hedges shall not be located within a drainage easement, floodway, or
floodplain.
   (D)   Prohibited fencing. Electrified, barbed wire, and razor wire fences
are hereby prohibited in all zoning districts except C & M. This prohibition
shall not be construed to prohibit electrified and/or barbed wire fences when
used in conjunction with a purely agricultural use as defined by the Ohio
Revised Code.
   (E)   Corner lots. In any district on any corner lot, no fence, structure,
or planting shall be erected or maintained within 30 feet of the “corner” at a
height greater than two and one-half feet above curb or street grade, or so as
to interfere with traffic visibility across the corner. The CORNER shall be the
point of intersection of the two right-of-way lines.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998; Ord. 1273, passed 12-16-2003)
NONCONFORMING
§ 153.150 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any lawful uses of buildings or land existing at the effective date of
this chapter may be continued, even though such use does not conform to the
provisions hereof. The nonconforming use of a building may be extended
throughout those existing parts of the building which were arranged or designed
for such use. No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved, extended,
enlarged, or altered, and no nonconforming use of land shall be expanded,
except when authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the
provisions of §§
153.185 to
153.193.
   (B)   Whenever the use of a building or land becomes nonconforming through a
change in the amended zoning ordinance or in the district boundaries, such use
may be continued.
   (C)   After the effective date of this chapter, a nonconforming use which is
discontinued for a period of one year shall not again be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (D)   A nonconforming use which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of
God, or the public enemy to the extent of 60% or more of its reproduction value
at the time of damage shall not be restored except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located. When damaged by less than
60% of its reproduction value, a nonconforming use may be repaired or
reconstructed and used as before the time of damage, provided such repairs or
reconstruction are started within one year of the date of such damage.
   (E)   Nonconforming trailer or mobile homes located on a lot in any
district, once removed, shall not be relocated on such lot unless the unit was
“traded-in” for another unit. In this instance, the replacement shall be on
site within one week of the removal of the previous unit.
   (F)   It is not the intention herein to classify as nonconforming a use or
building allowed in a district as a conditional use under the regulations of
this chapter.
   (G)   Any building arranged, intended, or designed for a nonconforming use,
the construction of which has been started at the time of the passage of this
chapter but not completed, may be completed and put into such nonconforming
use, provided it is done within one year after this chapter takes effect.
   (H)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use,
such use cannot thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.151 ZONING CERTIFICATES FOR NONCONFORMING USES.
   A zoning certificate shall be required for all lawful nonconforming uses of
land and buildings created by adoption of this chapter in accordance with the
provisions of §§
153.165 to
153.170. Within one year of the date of passage of this chapter, the village
shall identify all nonconforming uses within the village limits and notify the
property owners. To the owners of properties that contain nonconforming uses at
the time of the passage of this chapter, the village will issue a zoning
certificate without fee.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.165 RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the responsible authority, who shall be
appointed by the Village Council, to enforce this chapter. It shall also be the
duty of all officials and employees of the village to assist the responsible
authority by reporting to said responsible authority upon new construction,
reconstruction, or land uses or upon seeming violations.
   (B)   Appeal from the decision of the responsible authority may be made to
the Zoning Board of Appeals, as provided in §§
153.185 to
153.193.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.166 ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to use or to permit the use of any
structure, building, or land, or part thereof, hereafter created, erected,
changed, converted, or enlarged, wholly or partly, until a zoning certificate
shall have been issued by the responsible authority. It shall be the duty of
the responsible authority to issue a certificate, provided said responsible
authority is satisfied that the structure, building, or premises, and the
proposed use thereof conform with all the requirements of this chapter. No
permit for excavation, construction, or reconstruction shall be issued by the
responsible authority unless the plans, specifications, and the intended use
conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon written request from the owner or tenant, the responsible
authority shall issue a zoning certificate for any building or premises
existing at the time of enactment of this chapter certifying, after inspection,
the extent and kind of use made of the building or premises and whether such
use conforms to the provisions of this chapter. No charge shall be made for
issuing a zoning certificate in accordance with this division (B).
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.167 CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH CERTIFICATES ARE REQUIRED.
   A zoning certificate shall be required for any of the following, except as
herein provided:
   (A)   Construction or structural alteration of any building, including
accessory buildings;
   (B)   Change in use of an existing building or accessory building to a use
of a different classification;
   (C)   Occupancy and use of vacant land;
   (D)   Change in the use of land to a use of a different classification;
   (E)   Any change in the use of a nonconforming use; and
   (F)   A zoning certificate shall be required for all lawful nonconforming
uses of land or buildings created by adoption of this chapter or any
amendments.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.168 APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE OF ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for a zoning certificate for the
construction of a new building or the alteration of an existing building. A
zoning certificate shall be issued within ten days after written request for
the same has been made to the responsible authority or his or her agent,
provided such construction or alteration is in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Written application for a zoning certificate for the use of vacant
land, or for a change in the use of land or of a building, or for a change in a
nonconforming use, as herein provided, shall be made to the responsible
authority. If the proposed use is in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter, the certificate therefore shall be issued within 16 days after the
application for same has been made.
   (C)   Every application for a zoning certificate shall be accompanied by the
permit fee hereafter provided for, a plot plan in duplicate, and such other
plans as may be necessary to show the location and type of buildings to be
erected or alterations to be made. Where construction or physical improvement
of the land is involved, the lot and location of the buildings to be erected
thereon shall be staked out on the ground before construction is started, and
all dimensions shown on filed plans shall be based on an actual survey.
      (1)   Each plan shall show:
         (a)   The street providing access to the lot and the exact location of
the lot in relation to the nearest cross street;
         (b)   The name of the concerned lot plan, if any, and the lot numbers
of the concerned and abutting properties;
         (c)   The actual dimensions of the lot, the yard, and other open space
dimensions thereof, and the location, size, and use of any existing structure
thereon;
         (d)   The location, size, and use of the proposed structure and/or the
proposed enlargement of the existing structure;
         (e)   Plans of the new construction showing material to be used; and
         (f)   Any other information which in the judgment of the responsible
authority may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Each plan shall bear statements declaring:
         (a)   No part of the land involved in the application has been
previously used to provide required yard space or lot area for another
structure; and
         (b)   Which abutting land was formerly that of the owner of the land
involved in the application, and, if any, the approximate date of title
transfer.
      (3)   Where complete and accurate information is not readily available
from existing records, the responsible authority may require the applicant to
furnish a survey of the lot by a registered engineer or surveyor.
      (4)   Each property owner or authorized agent shall be required to attest
to the correctness of the statements and data furnished with the application.
      (5)   A file of such applications and plans shall be kept in the office
of the responsible authority.
      (6)   The responsible authority shall issue or reject the application
according to this chapter and shall inform the applicant.
      (7)   Where construction or physical improvement of the land is involved,
work must begin within one year of the date of the issuance of the zoning
certificate and be completed within three years of the issuance of the zoning
certificate.
   (D)   The responsible authority shall not issue a zoning certificate for any
application requiring site plan review by the Planning Commission until the
Commission approves the site plan.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.169 FEE FOR ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   A fee, in accordance with the village zoning certificate fee schedule,
as set forth by ordinance of Village Council, shall accompany each application
for a zoning certificate.
   (B)   The responsible authority shall forthwith deposit all permit fees with
the Village Clerk who shall credit such fees to the credit of the Zoning and
Building Fund of the village and shall be used for administration of this
chapter.
   (C)   Every zoning certificate shall state that the building or the proposed
use of a building or land complies with all provisions of law. A record of all
zoning certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the responsible
authority or his or her agent. Copies shall be furnished upon request within
two working days to any person having proprietary or tenancy interest in the
building or land affected after due notice to the responsible authority.
   (D)   Applications for variance permits heretofore provided for in this
chapter shall also be submitted to the responsible authority or his or her
agent. Such applications shall be accompanied by the variance permit fee
hereafter provided for, together with information required for a regular zoning
certificate and such additional information as the responsible authority shall
require.
   (E)   Applications for temporary permits shall be submitted to the
responsible authority or his or her agent, together with the temporary permit
fee and such information as the responsible authority shall require.
   (F)   The granting of a certificate under this chapter allows the
construction or alteration of buildings or structures and the modification of
use as applied for in the permit and according to the plans, plats, and
specifications submitted with the application. Construction, alteration of
buildings or structures, and modifications of use contrary to such plans,
plats, or specifications or contrary to §§
153.065 to
153.071, unless authorized by the Commission shall constitute violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.170 GRANTING OF TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   The responsible authority shall have the power to grant temporary permits
for the following purposes and subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   A temporary permit may be granted for the use of a house trailer as a
residence in connection with the granting of a zoning certificate for the
construction of a dwelling. The permit shall allow such use on the premises on
which the dwelling is to be constructed and shall expire on completion or
occupancy of the dwelling, and in any event, within one year of the date
granted. Such trailer must be equipped with adequate sanitary facilities which
shall include a connection to the village sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   A temporary permit may be granted in conjunction with the remodeling
of a home for the use of a house trailer as a residence on a lot or tract of
land which has a dwelling thereon. Such permit shall expire in 30 days. No more
than one permit shall be issued each year per property without the approval of
the Planning Commission.
   (C)   A temporary permit may be granted for the erection and use of
construction buildings in connection with the granting of any zoning
certificate. Such permit must expire within 30 days of completion of the
construction.
   (D)   A temporary permit may be granted for the use of lands in an “A”, “R-
A”, “R-3”, “C”, or “M” District as a fair or circus grounds. Such permit shall
expire within two weeks of issue.
   (E)   In the granting of such permits, the responsible authority shall
determine that the site for which the permit is requested is of sufficient size
and so located that adequate parking facilities are available.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 153.185 ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   To carry out the provisions of this chapter there shall be a Zoning
Board of Appeals appointed by the Mayor and approved by the Council. This
Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of three regular members, one of which
shall be the Mayor, none of which shall be members of Council, and three
alternate members. If a regular member of the Zoning Board of Appeals is unable
to serve because of absence in the village, illness, or is disqualified to
serve by reason of having an interest in property affected by a matter before
the Zoning Board of Appeals or otherwise disqualified by reason of conflict of
interest, an alternate member shall serve instead. Selection of an alternate
member or members to serve in each particular instance where a regular member
is unable to serve shall be determined by lot. If sufficient alternate members
are unable to serve for any of the reasons that a regular member would be
unable to serve, the Mayor may select and Council may confirm sufficient
additional alternate members to serve in a particular instance.
   (B)   Appointments shall be for five-year terms beginning January 1. The
Village Council shall choose a successor to fill any vacancy. Each member shall
serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. Vacancies shall be
filled by the Village Council and shall be for the respective unexpired term.
The members of the Zoning Board of Appeals may receive such compensation as the
Village Council provides.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall interpret the provisions of this
chapter in such manner as to carry out the intent and purpose thereof.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall rule on all proper applications for
permits in such a manner as to carry out the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
   (E)   The Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall appoint a Clerk
of the Zoning Board of Appeals, who may be a member thereof and who shall serve
at the discretion of the Zoning Board of Appeals; it shall be the duty of the
Clerk to keep a complete record of all the proceedings of the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   (F)   The Clerk shall prepare a complete record of the location, nature, and
extent of all nonconforming uses. When such a nonconforming use ceases to
exist, it shall automatically become a conforming use and the Clerk shall so
inform the Zoning Board of Appeals and record such fact upon the records of the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (G)   The Clerk of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall receive as compensation
such amount as the Council shall set, payable from the Zoning Fund.
   (H)   The hearings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be public. The Board
shall adopt from time to time such rules and regulations as it may deem
necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter. The Board shall
hear any owner of property adjacent to the lot for which the granting of any
zoning certificate is pending, and shall also hear any other parties having
substantial interest as determined by the Board.
   (I)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official’s
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Village
Council and shall be a public record.
   (J)   The Board shall have the power to subpoena witnesses, administer
oaths, and punish for contempt, and may require the production of documents,
under such regulations as it may establish.
   (K)   The Board may call upon the various officials and employees of the
village for assistance in the performance of its duties and it shall be the
duty of such departments to render such assistance to the Board as may
reasonably be required.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.186 APPLICATION AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Application. An application, in cases in which the Board has original
jurisdiction under the provisions of this chapter, may be taken by any person
aggrieved, including a tenant, or by a governmental officer, department, board,
or bureau. Such application shall be filed with the responsible authority, who
shall transmit same to the Board. If not contrary to the Ohio Revised Code
enabling statutes for municipal zoning, a deposit shall be paid upon the filing
of each appeal for each conditional use, and for each variance or miscellaneous
use, for the purpose of defraying the costs of the proceedings described
herein.
   (B)   Appeals.
      (1)   An appeal to the Board may be taken by any person aggrieved or by
an officer of the village affected by any decision of the responsible
authority. Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days after the decision, by
filing with the responsible authority and with the Board a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof. The responsible authority shall forthwith
transmit to the Board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the
action appealed from was taken.
      (2)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the responsible authority shall certify to the Zoning
Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with it,
that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her
opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case, proceedings
shall not be stayed otherwise than by restraining order which may be granted by
the Board or by a court of equity, after notice to the officer from whom the
appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
      (3)   The Board may, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter,
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from and shall make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion ought to be made in
the premises; and to that end, shall have all powers of the responsible
authority from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.187 HEARINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of an appeal,
give at least ten days’ public notice thereof in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village, and at least ten days’ notice to parties having
proprietary interest in land within 200 feet, and decide upon the appeal within
a reasonable time after it is submitted. At this hearing, any party may appear
in person or by attorney.
   (B)   The hearings of the Board shall be public.
   (C)   Upon the day for hearing any application or appeal, the Board may
adjourn the hearing in order to permit the obtaining of additional information
or to cause such further notice as it deems proper to be served upon such other
property owners as it decides may be substantially interested in said
application or appeal. In the case of an adjourned hearing, persons previously
notified and persons already heard need not be notified of the time of
resumption of said hearing unless the Board so decides.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.188 DECISION OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   The Board shall decide all applications and appeals within 30 days
after the final hearing thereon.
   (B)   A certified copy of the Board’s decision shall be transmitted to all
parties of interest. Such decision shall be binding upon the responsible
authority and observed by him or her, and he or she shall incorporate the terms
and conditions of the same in the permit to the applicant or appellant,
whenever a permit is authorized by the Board.
   (C)   A decision of the Board shall not become final until the expiration of
five days from the date of such decision is made, unless the Board shall find
the immediate taking effect of such decision is necessary for the preservation
of property or personal rights and shall so certify on the record.
   (D)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirements, decision, or determination appealed from and shall make
such order, requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion ought to
be made in the premises; and to that end, shall have all powers of the
responsible authority from whom the appeal is taken. Any party adversely
affected by a decision of the Board may appeal to the County Court of Common
Pleas, on the ground that the decision was unreasonable or unlawful.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.189 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the following powers and it shall be
its duty:
   (A)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error of law
in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the responsible
authority in the enforcement of this chapter or any amendments thereto; and
   (B)   In hearing and deciding appeals, the Board shall have the power to
grant an exception in the following instances:
      (1)   Interpret provisions of this chapter in such a way as to carry out
the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the zoning district map
fixing the several districts accompanying and made a part of this chapter,
where the street layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as
shown on the zoning district map aforesaid;
      (2)   Permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been damaged by explosion, fire, act of God, or the public enemy, to the extent
of more than 60% of its fair market value where the Board finds some compelling
necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming use and the primary
purpose of continuing the nonconforming use is not to continue a monopoly;
      (3)   Permit the modification of the automobile parking space or loading
space requirements where, in the particular instance, such modification will
not be inconsistent with the purpose and intent of such requirements; or permit
the waiver of the requirement that automobile space be provided on the same lot
with a dwelling, if other suitable and convenient parking space is available
within or without a building; or the dual use of parking facilities (e.g., by
stores during the day and theaters during the evening) provided there is no
overlapping of use and the parking space requirements for each building or use
are complied with during each period;
      (4)   Permit in the “A” or “R” Districts public parking areas or storage
garages adjacent to any existing or proposed use in the Multiple Dwelling,
Commercial, or Industrial District;
      (5)   Determine whether an industry should be permitted within an “M”
Industrial District because of the methods by which it would be operated and
because of its effect upon uses within surrounding zoning districts;
      (6)   The substitution of a nonconforming use existing at the time of
enactment of this chapter for another nonconforming use, if no structural
alterations except those required by law or ordinance are made; provided,
however, that in an “A” or “R” District and in a “C” District, no change shall
be authorized to any use which is not a permitted or conditional use in any
“A”, “R”, or “C” District; and
      (7)   Permit the temporary use of a structure or premises in any district
for a purpose or use that does not conform to the regulations prescribed
elsewhere in this chapter for the district in which it is located, provided
that such use be of a temporary nature and does not involve the erection of a
substantial structure. A zoning certificate for such use shall be granted in
the form of a temporary and revocable permit, for not more than a 12-month
period in undeveloped sections of the village and not more than six months in
developed sections, subject to such conditions as will safeguard the public
health, safety, convenience, and general welfare.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.190 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals and
authorize such variances from the provisions or requirements of this chapter as
will not be contrary to the public interest. In authorizing a variance, the
Board may attach conditions and require such guarantee or bond as it may deem
necessary to assure compliance with the objectives of this chapter. On appeal
where there is unnecessary hardship, the Board may grant a variance in the
application of the provisions of the zoning ordinance only if all of the
following findings are made:
      (1)   There are unique physical circumstances or conditions, including
irregularity, narrowness, or shallowness of lot size or shape, or exceptional
topographical or other physical conditions generally created by the provisions
of the zoning ordinance in the neighborhood or district in which the property
is located;
      (2)   Because of such physical circumstances or conditions, there is no
possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of the zoning ordinance and that the authorization of a variance is
therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property;
      (3)   Such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the appellant;
      (4)   The variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential character
of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located, nor
substantially or permanently impair the appropriate use or development of
adjacent property, nor be detrimental to the public welfare; and
      (5)   The variance, if authorized, will represent the minimum variance
that will afford relief and will represent the least modification possible of
the regulation in issue.
   (B)   Subject to the above general standards in the granting of variances,
the Board shall further be guided by the following principles:
      (1)   Use variances may be granted to secure appropriate development of a
lot or tract of land only when:
         (a)   Side lot line of said lot adjoins a nonconforming building or
use existing on the effective date of this chapter;
         (b)   Side lot line adjoins a less restricted use district; or
         (c)   There was an existing nonconforming use on said lot on the
effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   Lot coverage and set back variances may be granted to secure
appropriate development of a lot or tract of land only in the following
situations.
         (a)   Site area required for residence use may be varied not more than
20% where a given lot or tract of land was by the last conveyance prior to the
adoption of this chapter of such size or restricted area that it cannot be
appropriately improved without such variance, and where the owner owns no
adjoining property which can be added to said tract to create sufficient area
to comply with the ordinance.
         (b)   Minimum floor area required for a dwelling may be varied by not
more than 10% where by exceptional arrangement of site design the result of
said variation will be in harmony with the character of the neighborhood.
         (c)   Yard size regulations may be varied by not more than 20%,
provided that the light and ventilation after the variation will be adequate to
avoid unhealthy and unsanitary conditions.
   (C)   The Board shall have the authority to grant an extension or permit
completion of a building devoted to a nonconforming use upon a lot occupied by
such building, or on a lot adjoining, provided that such lot was under the same
ownership as the lot in question on the date such building became
nonconforming, and where such extension is necessary and incidental to the
existing use of such building; provided, however, that the floor areas of such
extension shall not exceed in all 100% of the floor area of the existing
building or buildings devoted to a nonconforming use.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.191 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Under the authorization granted in R.C. Chapter 713.11, to hear and
decide special exceptions to the terms of this chapter, the Board shall have
the power to decide applications for conditional uses in those cases specified
in §§
153.040 to
153.050. In considering such applications, the Board shall give due regard to
the nature and purpose of the proposed conditional use and to the nature and
condition of all adjacent uses and structures; may impose such requirements and
conditions as the Board may deem necessary for the protection of adjacent
properties and the public interest, including specific limitations as to future
expansion; and, may reject applications for conditional uses other than
churches, educational institutions, and parochial schools (elementary and high)
where the actual and specific use proposed would, in the reasonable judgment of
the Board, be inappropriate for the zoning district and detrimental to adjacent
uses and structures or to the neighborhood. Where a proposed conditional use is
both specifically and generally described under §§
153.009 and
153.040 to
153.050, the use shall be permitted only in the district where it is most
specifically described.
   (B)   The following basic standard shall apply to conditional uses in any
“A” or “R” District.
      (1)   The location and size of the use, the nature and intensity of the
operations involved in or conducted in connection with it, its site layout, and
its relation to streets giving access to it shall be such that both pedestrian
and vehicular traffic to and from the use and the assembly of persons in
connection with it will not be hazardous, inconvenient, or conflict with the
normal traffic on residential streets, both at the time and as the same may be
expected to increase with any prospective increase in the population of the
area, taking into account convenient routes of pedestrian traffic, particularly
of children, relation to main traffic thoroughfares and to street
intersections, and the general character and intensity of development of the
area.
      (2)   The location and height of buildings, the location, nature, and
height of walls and fences, and the nature and extent of landscaping on the
site shall be such that the use will not hinder or discourage the appropriate
development and use of adjacent land and buildings.
      (3)   The actual and specific use for which application is made (other
than churches, educational institutions, and parochial schools (elementary and
high)) shall be appropriate to the zoning district in which the site is located
and shall not be detrimental to adjacent uses and structures or to the
neighborhood.
   (C)   The following basic standard shall apply to conditional uses in any
“C” or “M” District.
      (1)   The location and size of the use, the nature and intensity of the
operations involved in or conducted in connection with it, its site layout and
its relation to streets giving access to it shall be such that vehicular
traffic to and from the use will not be more hazardous than the normal traffic
of the district, both at the time and as the same may be expected to increase
with increasing development of the village, taking into account vehicular
turning movements in relation to routes of traffic flow, street intersections,
sight distances, and pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   The nature, location, size, and site layout of the use shall be
such that it will be a harmonious part of the Business or Industrial District
in which it is situated, taking into account prevailing shopping habits,
convenience of access by prospective patrons, the physical and economic
relationships of one type of use to another, and characteristic groupings of
uses in a Commercial or Industrial District.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for approval of a conditional use and
prior to setting a date for a public hearing thereon pursuant to this
subchapter, the Board shall submit the application for approval of the
conditional use and all supporting documentation to the Planning Commission for
review and shall receive its recommendation. The Planning Commission shall
review the application and materials submitted for compliance with the criteria
set forth in this chapter for such conditional use and shall review such
application’s general compliance with the objectives of this chapter. The
Planning Commission may recommend approval or disapproval of the application or
may recommend conditions or restrictions upon the approval of the application.
The Board shall consider the recommendation of the Planning Commission in
reaching its decision on the application.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.192 PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Board shall have the power to authorize issuance of a zoning
certificate for uses that are subject to performance requirements as set forth
in this chapter.
   (B)   The application for a zoning certificate for a use subject to
performance requirements shall be accompanied by a plan of the proposed
construction or development; a description of the proposed machinery, processes
and products, and specifications for the mechanisms and techniques to be used
in meeting the performance requirements.
   (C)   The Board may refer the application to one or more expert consultants
qualified to advise as to whether a proposed use will conform to the
performance requirements. The costs of such services shall be borne by the
applicant, and a copy of any reports shall be furnished the applicant.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.193 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   Where the street or lot layout actually on the ground, or as recorded,
differs from the street and lot lines as shown on the zoning district map, the
Board, after notice to the owners of the property and after a public hearing,
shall interpret the map in such a way as to carry out the intent and purpose of
this chapter. In case of any questions as to the location of any boundary line
between zoning districts, a request for interpretation of the Zoning District
Map may be made to the Board and a determination shall be made by said Board.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
DISTRICT CHANGES AND ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS
§ 153.205 GENERAL.
   Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare, or good zoning
practices require, the Village Council may by ordinance (after receipt of
recommendations thereof from the Planning Commission, and subject to the
procedures provided by law) amend, supplement, or change the regulations,
district boundaries, or classification of property, now or hereafter
established by this chapter or amendments thereof. It shall be the duty of the
Commission to submit its recommendations regarding all applications or
proposals for amendments or supplements to the Village Council.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.206 PROCEDURE FOR CHANGE IN ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Amendments or supplements to the zoning ordinance may be initiated by
motion of the Village Planning Commission, by the passage of an ordinance
therefor by the Village Council, or by the filing of an application therefor by
one or more of the owners or lessees of property within the area proposed to be
changed or affected by the proposed amendment or supplement with the Village
Planning Commission. The Village Council shall, upon the passage of such
ordinance, immediately certify it to the Village Planning Commission.
   (B)   Applications for any change of district boundaries or classifications
of property as shown on the zoning district map shall be submitted to the
Commission, at its public office, upon such forms, and shall be accompanied by
such data and information, as may be prescribed for that purpose by the
Commission, so as to assure the fullest practical presentation of facts for the
permanent record. Each such application shall be verified by at least one of
the owners or lessees of property within the area proposed to be reclassified,
attesting to the truth and correctness of all the facts and information
presented with the applications. Applications for amendments initiated by the
Commission shall be accompanied by its motion pertaining to such proposed
amendment.
   (C)   Any person or persons desiring a change in the zoning classification
of property shall file with the application for such change, a statement giving
the names and addresses of the owners of all properties within and contiguous
to and directly across the street from any part of the property the zoning
classification of which is proposed to be changed.
   (D)   No such amendment or change shall become effective unless the proposed
amendment or change is first considered for its approval, disapproval, or
recommendation by the Planning Commission. The Commission shall be allowed a
reasonable time, to be not less than 30 days after referral or submittal, for
consideration and report.
   (E)   The Commission may recommend that the application be granted as
requested, or it may recommend a modification of the zoning amendment
requested, in the application, or it may recommend that the application be not
granted. These recommendations shall then be certified to the Village Council.
Failure to file such report within 60 days after referral or the time otherwise
provided, shall be accepted as and be deemed an approval of the proposed change
or amendment submitted.
   (F)   Within 30 days after receiving from the Commission the certification
of said recommendations on the proposed amendment, and before adoption of such
amendment, the Village Council shall schedule a public hearing thereon. It
shall publish notice of the time and place of such hearing in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village, adequately describing the nature of the
pending legislation, once a week for two consecutive weeks on the same day of
the week, the first of such publication to take place not less than 30 days
prior to the public hearing. The notice shall state the place or places and
times at which the proposed amendment to the ordinance, including text and
maps, may be examined and other notices as required by state statutes.
   (G)   If the proposed amendment or supplement intends to rezone or
redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as listed on the tax duplicate, written
notice of the hearing shall be mailed by the Village Clerk, by first class
mail, at least 20 days before the date of the public hearing to all owners of
property within and contiguous to and directly across the street from such area
proposed to be rezoned or redistricted to the address of such owners appearing
on the County Auditor’s current tax list or the Village Clerk- Treasurer’s
mailing list. The failure to notify, as provided in this section, shall not
invalidate any recommendations adopted hereunder; it being the intention of
this section to provide, so far as may be possible, due notice to persons
substantially interested in the proposed change that a proposed amendment is
pending before the Village Council proposing to make a change in the zoning
district map or the regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (H)   After holding the public hearing, the Village Council shall consider
such recommendations and vote on the passage of the proposed amendment to the
text of the ordinance or zoning district map. No such ordinance, measure, or
regulation which violates, differs from, or departs from the plan or report
submitted by the Commission shall take effect unless passed or approved by not
less than three-fourths of the membership of Council. No ordinance, measure, or
regulation which is in accordance with the recommendation, plan, or report
submitted by the Commission shall be deemed to pass or take effect without the
concurrence of at least a majority of the members elected to the Village
Council.
   (I)   If a proposed amendment or supplement initiated by application is
disapproved by the Village Council, another application for amendment or
supplement affecting the property included in the disapproved application shall
not be submitted within six months from the date of disapproval, except with a
statement by the Planning Commission or a resolution by the Village Council,
indicating that the changed or changing conditions affecting the land are
sufficient to warrant reconsideration.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.207 APPLICATION.
   At the time that an application for change of zoning districts is filed with
the Commission, as provided herein, if not contrary to the Ohio Revised Code
enabling statutes for municipal zoning, a fee shall be deposited with the
Village Clerk in accordance with scheduled fees established by Council. A
written receipt shall be issued to the person making such payment and records
thereof shall be kept in the manner as prescribed by law.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to locate, erect, construct, reconstruct,
enlarge, change, maintain, or use any building or land in violation of any
regulation in or any provision of this chapter or any amendment or supplement
thereto adopted by the Village Council. Any person, firm, or corporation who
violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply with or who resists
the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter or amendment thereto,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in any sum not more
than $100 for each offense. Each and every day, during which such illegal
location, erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change,
maintenance, or use continues, may be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any certificate issued upon a false statement of any fact which is
material to the issuance thereof shall be void. Whenever the fact of such false
statement shall be established to the satisfaction of the Village Council, the
certificate shall be revoked by notice in writing to be delivered to the holder
of the void certificate upon the premises concerned, or, if such holder be not
found there, by posting the said notice of revocation in some conspicuous place
upon the said premises. Any person who shall proceed thereafter with such work
or use without having obtained a new certificate in accordance with this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined in any sum
not more than $100 for each offense. Each and every day, during which such
illegal work or use continues, may be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   In case any building is or is proposed to be located, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, changed, maintained, or used or any land
is or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter or any amendment or
supplement thereto, the responsible authority, Village Solicitor, or any
adjacent or neighboring property owner who would be specially damaged by such
violation, in addition to other remedies provided by law, may institute
injunction, mandamus, abatement, or any other appropriate action, actions,
proceeding or proceedings, to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove such unlawful
location, erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change,
maintenance, or use.
(Ord. 1141, passed 9-1-1998)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   AGREEMENTS
      
II.   PROPERTY TRANSFERS
      
III.   VACATIONS
      
IV.   EASEMENTS
      
V.   ZONING
TABLE I: AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
662      - -         Granting contract to telephone company
743      - -         Contracts with various municipal electric systems
644      5-17-1977   Contract for engineering services concerning road work
648      7-5-1977    Contract for the improvement of Pine Street
650      8-2-1977    Contract with Sewer-Tech, Inc. for sewer cleaning
652      9-20-1977   Contract for consulting and collecting services
655      11-1-1977   Contract for the purchase of capacitors and demand meters
666      4-4-1978    Contract with County Commissioners for housing of
                     prisoners
672      5-2-1978    Contract for purchase of submersible pump and repairing of
                     pump
668      5-16-1978   Granting franchise to electric provider
676      6-6-1978    Contract with County Commissioners to enforce State Code
                     of Industrial Relations
679      10-3-1978   Contract for consulting services
681      10-3-1978   Agreement for mutual police protection
682      10-3-1978   Contract for purchase of equipment
688      12-5-1978   Agreement for mutual interchange of Fire Department
                     services
692      12-19-1978  Contract for the purchase of electrical cable and
                     accessories
693      12-19-1978  Agreement for legal services
694      1-16-1979   Contract for engineering services
704      4-3-1979    Contract for communication services
705      4-3-1979    Contract with County Commissioners to enforce state
                     regulations
710      5-15-1979   Contract for the installation of curbs in the village
711      6-5-1979    Lease agreement for property
713      8-7-1979    Contract for consulting services
718      12-4-1979   Contract for the rental of portable substation and oil
                     filtering equipment
715      12-18-1979  Lease for truck trailer parking
719      1-8-1980    Agreement for legal services
720      2-5-1980    Contract for drilling of a test well
729      5-6-1980    Agreement with Freedom Township for road work
734      9-16-1980   Contract for repair of reclosures
735      10-7-1980   Contract for consulting services
738      12-16-1980  Agreement for legal services
740      1-20-1981   Contract for trash removal services
744      3-17-1981   License agreement for use of property
748      6-16-1981   Contract for the repair of the catch basins and curbs
750      8-4-1981    Granting Suburban Cablevision, Inc. rights to operate
                     communications systems
752      9-2-1981    Contract with Suburban Cablevision, Inc.
754      10-20-1981  Contract for consulting services
757      11-17-1981  Contract with the Pemberville Elevator Association
758      12-1-1981   Agreement for legal services
760      12-15-1981  Contract for mutual police aid
763      2-2-1982    Contract for trash removal
766      4-6-1982    Contract for technical supervision services
767      4-20-1982   Consultation agreement with J.S. Sawvel and Associates of
                     Findlay, Ohio
768      4-20-1982   Contract with American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc.
774      8-17-1982   Contract to repair the substation transformer to High
                     Voltage Maintenance Company
775      8-17-1982   Contract for truck and equipment rental
780      11-16-1982  Contract for consulting services
782      12-7-1982   Granting franchise to Matrix-Suburban Cablevision, Inc.
790      2-15-1983   Contract to furnish nonresident water service
791      4-5-1983    Contract for dispatch services
803      9-6-1983    Contract for consulting services
804      10-4-1983   Contract with Cablevision Company
805      11-15-1983  Agreement for legal services
806      11-15-1983  Contract with American Municipal Power-Ohio Inc.
809      1-3-1984    Lease agreement for farming purposes
816      5-1-1984    Contract for road work
824      9-4-1984    Contract for the purchase of electrical cable
829      11-6-1984   Contract for equipment rent and for line construction and
                     rebuilding on Hickory and Moore Street
826      11-20-1984  Mutual aid contracts with municipal electrical systems
833      1-22-1985   Contract for consulting services
834      1-22-1985   Contract with Martixvision of Suburban Toledo, Inc.
837      2-5-1985    Contract with the state s Bureau of Worker s Compensation
839      4-16-1985   Contract for consulting services in connection with the
                     rate evaluation study
842      5-21-1985   Contract with the County Commissioners for housing
                     prisoners
849      9-17-1985   Contract for the construction of a skimmer
850      9-17-1985   Contract with Freedom Township for road improvement
855      11-5-1985   Modification of a lease agreement with the Community Pool
                     Corp.
856      12-17-1985  Agreement for legal services
860      1-7-1986    Crossing agreement with Lightnet
861      1-21-1986   Contract for the purchase and installation of electrical
                     breaker switches for the village substation
867      5-20-1986   Granting a license agreement for use of a parcel of land
869      5-20-1986   Contract for a sidewalk extension
871      6-17-1986   Authorization of lease agreement
876      12-16-1986  Agreement for legal services
891      7-7-1987    Contract for engineering services
895      12-15-1987  Agreement for legal services
900      3-1-1988    Contract with American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc.
909      6-7-1988    Amendment to lease between the village and the Community
                     Pool Corp.
912      8-16-1988   Contract for the purchase of a digger derrick truck
916      10-4-1988   Agreement with American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc.
919      11-15-1988  Agreement for construction of temporary sewer installation
936      9-5-1989    Contract for assistance and financing construction of play
                     ground equipment
937      9-19-1989   Contract with American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc.
945      11-7-1989   Contract for painting services at Town Hall
946      12-19-1989  Agreement for construction of sewer line installation
947      12-19-1989  Agreement for legal services
955      2-6-1990    Contract with T & R Electrical Supply Company, Inc.
960      4-3-1990    Contract for engineering services
961      5-15-1990   Contract with T & R Electrical Supply Company, Inc.
963      6-5-1990    Contract with Duerk Construction, Inc.
977      2-19-1991   Agreement for legal services
986      5-21-1991   Authorizing AMP- Ohio to secure hydroelectric power source
991      9-3-1991    Granting Cablevision of the Midwest Inc. The right to
                     operate communications systems
997      2-4-1992    Agreement for legal services
1000     2-4-1992    Agreement with the DOT for snow removal services
1012     9-15-1992   Joint venture agreement with other municipalities
1018     12-15-1992  Agreement for legal services
1021     2-2-1993    Joint venture agreement with other municipalities
1026     3-2-1993    Contract with PHC, Inc. of Holland, OH for culvert
                     construction
1033     6-15-1993   Contract with Teco Inc. for a bucket truck
1042     11-2-1993   Agreement for legal services
1074     11-7-1995   Lease agreement for annual fair
1079     1-2-1996    Agreement for legal services
1082     3-19-1996   Lease agreement with James Smith
1087     6-18-1996   Lease agreement with Dale, Karen, and David Fahle
1093     8-20-1996   Modification to agreement with American Municipal Power-
                     Ohio, Inc.
1094     10-15-1996  Contract for building and zoning inspection services
1099     12-3-1996   Agreement concerning sewer service access
1100     12-17-1996  Contract with Don Feller of Feller, Finch, and Associates,
                     Inc.
1104     3-4-1997    Contract with Pemberville-Freedom Area Historical Society,
                     Inc.
1105     3-18-1997   Joint venture agreement with other municipalities
1112     6-3-1997    Agreement with Hirzel Canning Company for utility service
1113     7-15-1997   Agreement for the mutual use of certain property
1117     9-2-1997    Contract for repair work of the rotor drive at the village
                     sewer plant
1118     10-2-1997   Contract with Builders Service of Toledo for roofing
                     services
1128     12-2-1997   Contract with Aeration Industries International, Inc.
1138     5-5-1998    Agreement for pavement work related to the village sewer
                     project
1139     7-21-1998   Agreement for legal services
1142     8-18-1998   Agreement with American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc.
1164     6-1-1999    Contract for improvements to Village Hall
1168     7-20-1999   Contract for waterline mapping and study
1182     1-18-2000   Contract with AMP- Ohio for representation
1187     5-16-2000   Joint venture agreement creating OMEGA JV2
1192     9-19-2000   Joint venture agreement concerning OMEGA JV2
1195     11-7-2000   Contract with AMP- Ohio to administer a safety compliance
                     program
1201     1-2-2001    Contract with Sanderson CMI for software
1204     2-6-2001    Amendment to Ord. 766 concerning technical supervision
                     services
1207     4-3-2001    Contract for the rehabilitation of Water Street
1208     5-1-2001    Contract with Poggemeyer Design Group to update
                     subdivision regulations
1210     6-19-2001   Contract for construction of the new street garage
                     building
1213     7-17-2001   Contract with Grunwell-Cashero Company for Town Hall
                     improvements
1225     10-2-2001   Contract with D&K Excavating for the extension of water
                     lines
1226     10-16-2001  Contract with TW Fanch-One for the use of village property
1233     4-19-2002   Contract with Dreier and Maller, Inc. for sewer work
1240     10-1-2002   Contract with Drier and Maller, Inc. for root cutting and
                     the like
1253     3-4-2003    Cost sharing agreement with American Municipal Power-Ohio,
                     Inc.
1267     7-12-2003   Contract for the purchase of a police car
1280     3-2-2004    Lease agreement with Amplex Electric, Inc.
1262     3-16-2004   Agreement concerning a Joint Resolution District
1143     2-1-2005    Agreement concerning improvements to Bierly Avenue
1343     11-9-2005   Mutual aid agreement with the County Sheriff s Department
1336     11-15-2005  Authorizing the execution of a master services agreement
                     with AMP-Ohio
1341     11-15-2005  Agreement for sewer project with the Ohio Water
                     Development Authority
1344     1-3-2006    Mutual aid agreement with AMP-Ohio
1355     2-21-2006   Amendment to Joint Resolution District agreement
1370     6-20-2006   Authorizing contract with Jeffery Pawlecki
1376     11-7-2006   Cost sharing agreement with American Municipal Power-Ohio,
                     Inc.
1381     4-3-2007    Contract with Midwest Contracting, Inc. and Henson
                     Plumbing and Heating
1401     7-17-2007   Authorizing lease agreement for Memorial Park
1404     10-16-2007  Contract with American Municipal Power-Ohio Inc.
1405     10-16-2007  Contract with American Municipal Power-Ohio Inc.
1408     10-16-2007  Contract with Great Lakes Concrete Restoration, Inc.
1418     2-19-2008   Contract for emergency management with the county
1421     4-15-2008   Contract for handicap access improvements
1430     7-1-2008    Contract with the Ohio Plan for insurance coverage
1437     10-21-2008  Contract with Moser Construction, Inc.
1453     9-15-2009   Contract for the purchase of a bucket truck
1464     4-6-2010    Contract for emergency management services
1463     5-18-2010   Contract with Northwestern Water and Sewer District
1470     9-21-2010   Use agreement with the Edge Soccer Club for park property
1476     12-7-2010   Contract with Buckeye Sanitation, Inc. for trash removal
1486     6-7-2011    Power sales contract with American Municipal Power, Inc.
1487     8-2-2011    Contract with the County Public Defender
1504     6-19-2012   Contract with Robert Hudson for Zoning Inspector Services
1503     7-3-2012    Authorizing participation in a road work project
1517     1-21-2014   Contract for the design of the south water plant
1529     11-4-2014   Lease agreement with Capital Telecom for placement of a
                     telecommunications structure
1536     3-17-2015   Contract with Fuller, Finch, and Associates, Inc. for
                     street improvements
1539     7-21-2015   Participation in resurfacing project
1546     12-18-2015  Agreement for the construction of a water project
1606     7-19-2021   Contract with TD Engineering, LLC for professional
                     engineering services
1615     3-15-2022   Lease agreement with Pemberville Free Fair, Inc. for
                     conduct of community fair
1616     2-1-2022    Contract with Emerald FX for providing professional
                     installation of a drench deck at the community pool
1624     9-6-2022    Contract with Vaughn Industries, LLC, for construction of
                     electrical substation
Res. 772 10-4-2022   Contract to furnish emergency management between Wood
                     County and the Village of Pemberville
                     Cooperative agreement for construction of a water
Res. 775 10-18-2022  distribution improvements project between the village and
                     the Ohio Water Development Authority
Res. 776 11-15-2022  Water pollution control loan fund agreement for wastewater
                     facilities
Res. 777 11-15-2022  Water supply revolving loan account agreement for water
                     facilities
1632     1-3-2023    Lease agreement with Pemberville Free Fair, Inc. for
                     conduct of community fair
Res. 778 2-7-2023    Water pollution control loan fund agreement for wastewater
                     facilities
1634     3-7-2023    Loan agreement in connection with participation in the
                     American Municipal Power, Inc. financing program
                     Agreement from the Wood County Commissioners ARPA funding
1638     3-21-2023   to assist in the demolition and construction of a water
                     tower and water lines
1644     9-5-2023    Contract with Transtar Electric, Inc. for improvement of
                     the main pump station generator
1646     10-17-2023  Contract with Tetra Tech, Inc. to provide the design
                     engineering for the Bridge Street Bridge
1647     10-17-2023  Contract with Fenson Contracting, LLC for the Pemberville
                     East Front Street storm sewer improvements - Phase I
1648     10-17-2023  Contract with Maguire Iron, Inc. for the Pemberville
                     Elevated Water Storage Tank Improvements
1654     1-16-2024   Lease agreement with Pemberville Free Fair, Inc.
1655     2-20-2024   Authorizing the execution of the ATSI Delivery Point Study
                     and Construction Agreement
                     Contract with Columbia Gas of Ohio, Columbus, Ohio, for
1657     2-20-2024   the construction/ installation of a gas line to power the
                     main pump station backup generator in the village
                     Contract with West Erie Realty Solutions, Inc. to provide
1660     4-16-2024   the easement acquisition for parcels bordering Bridge
                     Street Bridge
                     Executing a standby note purchase agreement in connection
1663     6-4-2024    with the Ohio Treasurer of State s Ohio Market Access
                     Program
1671     6-4-2024    Software accessing agreement between Wood County and the
                     Pemberville Police Department
Res. 784 6-4-2024    Contract to furnish emergency management between Wood
                     County and the village
1678     11-5-2024   Agreement for the complete replacement of the existing
                     Bridge Street Bridge
                    
 
TABLE II: PROPERTY TRANSFERS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
698      3-6-1979    Purchase of certain real estate
699      3-6-1979    Directing a property trade
733      9-16-1980   Exchange of property
753      9-15-1981   Contract for the purchase of real estate
887      3-17-1987   Transfer of a parcel of land to the public library
969      9-18-1990   Accepting the dedication of a parcel of land from the
                     Citizens Savings Bank Company
993      12-3-1991   Authorizing the sale of a parcel located behind Citizens
                     Savings Bank
998      1-7-1992    Purchase for a parcel of land from Penn Central Railroad
1096     10-15-1996  Purchase of property at 117 East Front Street
1135     4-21-1998   Annexation of property
1145     10-6-1998   Annexation of property adjacent to Wood County Park
                     District
1181     3-10-2000   Annexation of territory from Freedom Township
1239A    8-6-2002    Purchase of property from Randolph Rubley
1301     8-17-2004   Purchase agreement concerning “Old Ford Garage”
1309     12-14-2004  Purchase of real estate at 118 West Front Street
1314     4-5-2005    Annexation of approximately 3.8088 acres
1383     1-16-2007   Purchase of property from Mary Stein, Trustee
1410     12-4-2007   Annexation of property from the “Stein” trust
1419     4-1-2008    Sale of property at 118 West Front Street
1494     12-6-2011   Annexation of property owned by Thomas Oberhaus
1538     7-21-2015   Annexation of property by Countyline Co-op, Inc.
1554     6-7-2016    Purchase of property on 810 West Front Street
1555     9-20-2016   Purchase agreement for a freightliner plow truck
1607     7-19-2021   Lease agreement with an option to purchase with Streaker
                     Tractor Sales, Inc. for a backhoe
1629     12-20-2022  Purchase agreement to obtain lands from the Board of
                     Education of the Eastwood Local School District
1666     6-4-2024    Deed conveying real estate back to the Oberhouse family
1679     11-19-2024  Authorizing a corrective deed to Freedom Township, Wood
                     County, Ohio for Parcel No. D16-512-100223002000
                    
 
TABLE III: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
863      2-18-1986   Vacation of a portion of Pine Street
908      6-7-1988    Vacation of an alley
                    
 
TABLE IV: EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
654      12-6-1977   Partial release of easement
670      5-2-1978    Granting easement to Columbia Gas of Ohio, Inc.
873      7-1-1986    Authorizing an easement from James and Jobie Black
1010     7-7-1992    Grant of right-of-way
1051     6-7-1994    Granting an easement to GTE North Inc.
1103     1-21-1997   Granting easement to William and Judith Beard
1169     8-17-1999   Authorizing easement to Columbia Gas of Ohio, Inc.
1186     5-16-2000   Accepting utility easement from James and Gayleen Smith
1268     8-19-2003   Granting easement to the county
1326     6-21-2005   Accepting easement from Trudy Davies
1368     5-16-2006   Accepting easements from County View Development, Inc.
1480     3-1-2011    Granting easement to Union Bank Company for the
                     construction of a flood wall
                    
 
TABLE V: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
773      - -         Rezoning two lots in Martin’s Addition
741      3-17-1981   Rezoning a parcel of land
904      5-3-1988    Rezoning five lots from Industrial to Business
910      6-21-1988   Rezoning a parcel of land on Hickory Street
1158     4-6-1999    Zoning Harrison Park property
1196     10-23-2000  Rezoning the Smith property from Agricultural to R-
                     2 Single Family
1298     8-17-2004   Amendment to zoning map for a portion of lot number 61
1325     6-16-2005   Zoning of recently annexed property
1333     9-6-2005    Rezoning the Joseph Hirzel property on Reese Road
1371     7-3-2006    Rezoning of property owned by James Smith
1457     11-17-2009  Rezoning of property owned by James Smith
1457     1-5-2010    Rezoning of property owned by James Smith
1460     2-2-2010    Rezoning 4.96 acres on East Front Street
1521     4-1-2014    Rezoning approximately 19.46 acres on West Front Street
1619     5-17-2022   Rezoning approximately 1.077 acres of land owned by NBPP
                     LLC, from M- 1 to R-3
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
Ohio Revised Code Section Code Section
Ohio Revised Code Section Code Section
1.01                      10.01
1.02                      10.02
1.05                      10.02
1.14                      10.03
1.15                      10.03
1.23                      10.05
1.42                      10.03
1.43                      10.03
1.44                      10.02
1.45                      10.03
1.46                      10.03
1.47                      10.18
1.48                      10.18
1.49                      10.18
1.50                      10.07
1.51                      10.06
1.52                      10.06
1.54                      10.04
1.55                      10.05
1.56                      10.05
1.57                      10.04
1.58                      10.04
1.59                      10.02
Title LVII                32.006
111.15                    152.010
Chapter 119               111.28
121.22                    32.113
122.075                   111.02
125.30                    32.006
149.43                    32.113
351.02                    111.01
701.01                    10.02
709.023                   32.006
Chapter 711               150.135
711.04                    150.040
711.041                   150.040
711.091                   150.119
711.131                   150.008
Chapter 713.11            153.191
715.26(F)                 31.05
715.67                    10.99
715.691                   32.006,
                          32.072
715.70                    32.006,
                          32.072
715.71                    32.006,
                          32.072
715.72                    32.072
715.261                   31.05
                          32.001,
                          32.004 –
Chapter 718               32.006,
                          32.109,
                          32.113
                          32.006,
718.01                    32.036,
                          32.050
718.01(L)                 32.006
718.011                   32.036
718.012                   32.021
718.02                    32.051
718.021                   32.071
718.03                    32.006,
                          32.035
718.031                   32.036,
                          32.055
718.04                    32.001,
                          32.002
718.05                    32.088
718.051                   32.087
718.052                   32.086
718.06                    32.052
718.08                    32.055
718.11                    32.006,
                          32.113
718.11(A)(4)              32.113
                          32.006,
718.12                    32.089,
                          32.114
718.121                   32.073
718.13                    32.109
718.15                    32.053
718.151                   32.054
718.16                    32.072
718.18                    32.112
718.19                    32.006,
                          32.090
718.23                    32.006,
                          32.107
718.24                    32.105
718.25                    32.093
718.26                    32.108
718.27                    32.091
718.28                    32.106
718.30                    32.115
718.35                    32.110
718.36                    32.006,
                          32.092
718.37                    32.006
718.38                    32.006,
                          32.111
718.41                    32.089
718.50                    32.022
718.80                    32.052,
                          32.118
718.86                    32.052
718.95                    32.118
718.99                    32.999
731.23                    10.19
731.231                   10.06
735.29                    33.107
1332.21 to 1332.34        110.01
1332.32(A)                110.02
Chapter 1705              32.006
Chapter 1706              32.006
2151.27                   111.13
2151.356 through 2151.358 111.13
2231.32                   92.01
Chapter 2506              151.011,
                          152.075
2923.12                   111.14
2923.121                  111.14
2925.57                   111.28
2925.57(D)(1)(a)          111.28
2925.57(D)(1)(b)          111.28
2925.58                   111.28
2927.021                  111.28
2927.021(D)(1)(a)         111.28
2927.021(D)(1)(b)         111.28
2927.022                  111.28
2929.37(a)                130.02
2935.36                   111.13
2953.52                   111.13
3501.28                   32.006
3501.36                   32.006
Chapter 3701              152.050
Chapter 3717              111.07
3719.011                  111.13
3731.01                   111.01,
                          111.13
3731.03                   111.01
3733.01 to 3733.08        92.01
3733.21 to 3733.30        92.01
Chapter 3734              152.033,
                          152.050
3734.05                   153.136
3735.65 through 3735.70   151.064
3735.66                   151.061
                          151.062,
3735.67                   151.066,
                          151.067
3735.671                  151.062,
                          151.065
3735.671(D)               151.063
3735.672(C)               151.063
3735.70                   151.067
3767.01                   111.27
3767.05(D)                111.27
3767.05(E)                111.27
Chapter 3770              32.006
3770.21                   32.006
3772.01                   32.006,
                          32.037
3929.86(c)                31.05
3929.86(d)                31.05
                          111.03,
                          111.04,
                          111.05,
Chapter 4301              111.08,
                          111.12,
                          111.13,
                          111.19
                          111.01,
                          111.04,
4301.01                   111.15,
                          111.21,
                          111.23
4301.01(B)(3)             111.01
4301.10(A)(6)             111.03
4301.17                   111.04
4301.20                   111.02
4301.21                   111.01,
                          111.03
4301.22                   111.03,
                          111.04
4301.22(A)                111.04
4301.22(A)(1)             111.13,
                          111.29
4301.22(A)(2)             111.29
4301.32 et seq.           Ch. 111
4301.58                   111.05
4301.60                   111.06
4301.61                   111.15,
                          111.28
4301.61(D)(1)(a)          111.28
4301.61(D)(1)(b)          111.28
4301.62                   111.07
4301.62(C)(8)             111.03
4301.62(D)                111.16
4301.63                   111.08,
                          111.13
4301.63 through 4301.636  111.29
4301.64                   111.16
4301.65                   111.10
4301.66                   111.18
4301.67                   111.19
4301.68                   111.20
4301.69                   111.13,
                          111.29
4301.70                   111.99
4301.74                   111.27
4301.80                   111.01
4301.82                   111.07
                          111.07,
4301.99(A)                111.10,
                          111.99
                          111.04,
4301.99(B)                111.09,
                          111.16,
                          111.19
                          111.03,
                          111.05,
                          111.06,
4301.99(C)                111.11,
                          111.13,
                          111.18,
                          111.20,
                          111.27
4301.99(D)                111.04
4301.99(E)                111.08,
                          111.09
4301.99(F)                111.12
4301.99(J)                111.10
4301.99(I)                111.13
4301.171                  111.07
4301.244                  111.01
4301.251                  111.04
4301.351                  111.04
4301.611                  111.28,
                          111.29
4301.631                  111.09
4301.633                  111.11,
                          111.13
4301.633 through 4301.637 111.04,
                          111.13
4301.634                  111.12,
                          111.13
4301.637                  111.14
4301.638                  111.04,
                          111.13
4301.639                  111.29
4301.639(A)               111.15
4301.639(C)               111.15
                          111.13,
4301.691                  111.14,
                          111.29
4301.991                  111.99
                          Ch. 111,
                          111.05,
                          111.14,
Chapter 4303              111.19,
                          111.21,
                          111.26,
                          111.28
4303.25                   111.01,
                          111.05
4303.26                   111.03
4303.27                   111.03
4303.40                   111.26
4303.99(D)                111.17
4303.201                  111.07
4303.202(D)(2)            111.17
4303.208(A)(3)            111.07
4303.208(C)               111.17
4303.271                  111.03
4313.02                   32.006
4399.09                   111.21
4399.10                   111.22
4399.14                   111.23
4399.15                   111.24
4399.16                   111.25
4399.99(A)                111.25
4399.99(B)                111.21
4399.99(C)                111.22
4399.99(D)                111.23
4399.99(E)                111.24
                          71.15,
4501.01                   Ch. 72 Schd. IV,
                          153.009
4503.21                   71.16
4503.24                   92.07,
                          111.07
4507.50 through 4507.52   111.28,
                          111.29
4510.02(A)(6)             111.12
4510.02(A)(7)             111.12
4510.33                   Ch. 111
4511.01                   111.07
4511.02                   10.16
4513.05                   71.16
4513.06                   71.16
4513.071                  71.16
4513.16                   71.16
4513.21                   71.16
4513.23                   71.16
4513.24                   71.16
4513.261                  71.16
4513.61                   92.19
4703.01 to 4703.19        152.010
4729.01                   111.01,
                          111.13
4729.27                   111.01,
                          111.02
Chapter 4733              150.008,
                          152.010
4737.05                   92.16
4737.05 to 4737.12        92.21
4738.01                   92.16
4781.01                   152.010
Chapter 4906              152.033
4927.01                   32.052
5502.13 through 5502.19   111.03
Chapter 5701              32.006
5703.056                  32.006,
                          32.112
5703.47                   32.036
5709.85                   151.065
5717.011                  32.006,
                          32.113
5717.03                   32.006
5727.01                   32.052
5727.24                   32.006
5727.30                   32.006
Chapter 5733              32.006
5733.05(B)(1)             32.006
5733.05(B)(2)             32.006
Chapter 5745              32.006,
                          32.051
5747.01                   32.006
                          32.055,
5747.08(G)                32.085,
                          32.088
5747.17                   32.037
6109.13                   50.27,
                          50.32
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
482      6-17-1969   151.080   
                     151.082
483      6-17-1969   151.083
484      6-17-1969   151.084
662      - -         TSO Table I
743      - -         TSO Table I
773      - -         TSO Table V
318      2-7-1955    Ch. 73 Schd. II
644      5-17-1977   TSO Table I
648      7-5-1977    TSO Table I
650      8-2-1977    TSO Table I
652      9-20-1977   TSO Table I
655      11-1-1977   TSO Table I
654      12-6-1977   TSO Table IV
666      4-4-1978    TSO Table I
670      5-2-1978    TSO Table IV
672      5-2-1978    TSO Table I
668      5-16-1978   TSO Table I
673      6-6-1978    30.32
676      6-6-1978    TSO Table I
679      10-3-1978   TSO Table I
681      10-3-1978   TSO Table I
682      10-3-1978   TSO Table I
                     94.01   
683      11-21-1978  94.03,
                     94.99
688      12-5-1978   TSO Table I
692      12-19-1978  TSO Table I
693      12-19-1978  TSO Table I
694      1-16-1979   TSO Table I
698      3-6-1979    TSO Table II
699      3-6-1979    TSO Table II
704      4-3-1979    TSO Table I
705      4-3-1979    TSO Table I
710      5-15-1979   TSO Table I
711      6-5-1979    TSO Table I
713      8-7-1979    TSO Table I
718      12-4-1979   TSO Table I
715      12-18-1979  TSO Table I
719      1-8-1980    TSO Table I
720      2-5-1980    TSO Table I
729      5-6-1980    TSO Table I
733      9-16-1980   TSO Table II
734      9-16-1980   TSO Table I
735      10-7-1980   TSO Table I
738      12-16-1980  TSO Table I
740      1-20-1981   TSO Table I
741      3-17-1981   TSO Table V
744      3-17-1981   TSO Table I
748      6-16-1981   TSO Table I
750      8-4-1981    TSO Table I
752      9-2-1981    TSO Table I
753      9-15-1981   TSO Table II
754      10-20-1981  TSO Table I
757      11-17-1981  TSO Table I
758      12-1-1981   TSO Table I
760      12-15-1981  TSO Table I
763      2-2-1982    TSO Table I
766      4-6-1982    TSO Table I
767      4-20-1982   TSO Table I
768      4-20-1982   TSO Table I
774      8-17-1982   TSO Table I
775      8-17-1982   TSO Table I
780      11-16-1982  TSO Table I
782      12-7-1982   TSO Table I
790      2-15-1983   TSO Table I
791      4-5-1983    TSO Table I
803      9-6-1983    TSO Table I
804      10-4-1983   TSO Table I
805      11-15-1983  TSO Table I
806      11-15-1983  TSO Table I
807      11-15-1983  31.01
809      1-3-1984    TSO Table I
812      2-21-1984   Ch. 72 Schd. III
816      5-1-1984    TSO Table I
824      9-4-1984    TSO Table I
829      11-6-1984   TSO Table I
826      11-20-1984  TSO Table I
833      1-22-1985   TSO Table I
834      1-22-1985   TSO Table I
837      2-5-1985    TSO Table I
839      4-16-1985   TSO Table I
842      5-21-1985   TSO Table I
                     151.045   
845      8-6-1985    151.049,
                     151.999
849      9-17-1985   TSO Table I
850      9-17-1985   TSO Table I
852      11-19-1985  31.05
855      11-5-1985   TSO Table I
853      11-19-1985  130.02
856      12-17-1985  TSO Table I
860      1-7-1986    TSO Table I
861      1-21-1986   TSO Table I
863      2-18-1986   TSO Table III
                     30.45   
                     30.50,
866      5-20-1986   91.15   
                     91.32,
                     91.99
867      5-20-1986   TSO Table I
869      5-20-1986   TSO Table I
871      6-17-1986   TSO Table I
873      7-1-1986    TSO Table IV
876      12-16-1986  TSO Table I
887      3-17-1987   TSO Table II
891      7-7-1987    TSO Table I
895      12-15-1987  TSO Table I
900      3-1-1988    TSO Table I
904      5-3-1988    TSO Table V
908      6-7-1988    TSO Table III
909      6-7-1988    TSO Table I
910      6-21-1988   TSO Table V
912      8-16-1988   TSO Table I
916      10-4-1988   TSO Table I
919      11-15-1988  TSO Table I
922      2-21-1989   Ch. 72 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 72 Schd. II
                     92.01,
932      6-6-1989    92.02,
                     92.99
936      9-5-1989    TSO Table I
937      9-19-1989   TSO Table I
945      11-7-1989   TSO Table I
943      12-5-1989   Ch. 73 Schd. II
946      12-19-1989  TSO Table I
947      12-19-1989  TSO Table I
955      2-6-1990    TSO Table I
960      4-3-1990    TSO Table I
961      5-15-1990   TSO Table I
963      6-5-1990    TSO Table I
969      9-18-1990   TSO Table II
977      2-19-1991   TSO Table I
986      5-21-1991   TSO Table I
991      9-3-1991    TSO Table I
993      12-3-1991   TSO Table II
998      1-7-1992    TSO Table II
997      2-4-1992    TSO Table I
1000     2-4-1992    TSO Table I
999      2-18-1992   93.04
                     92.15   
1006     5-5-1992    92.21,
                     92.99
1010     7-7-1992    TSO Table IV
1012     9-15-1992   TSO Table I
1014     9-15-1992   Ch. 72 Schd. IV
1018     12-15-1992  TSO Table I
1021     2-2-1993    TSO Table I
1026     3-2-1993    TSO Table I
1033     6-15-1993   TSO Table I
1034     7-20-1993   30.45
1042     11-2-1993   TSO Table I
1051     6-7-1994    TSO Table IV
                     130.16   
1065     8-15-1995   130.18,
                     130.99
1074     11-7-1995   TSO Table I
1079     1-2-1996    TSO Table I
1082     3-19-1996   TSO Table I
1070     5-7-1996    Ch. 73 Schd. I
1087     6-18-1996   TSO Table I
1093     8-20-1996   TSO Table I
1094     10-15-1996  TSO Table I
1096     10-15-1996  TSO Table II
1099     12-3-1996   TSO Table I
1100     12-17-1996  TSO Table I
1103     1-21-1997   TSO Table IV
1104     3-4-1997    TSO Table I
1105     3-18-1997   TSO Table I
1112     6-3-1997    TSO Table I
1110     6-17-1997   90.01,
                     90.99
                     90.02,
1111     6-17-1997   90.03,
                     90.99
1113     7-15-1997   TSO Table I
1117     9-2-1997    TSO Table I
1118     10-2-1997   TSO Table I
                     51.35   
1121     11-18-1997  51.46,
                     51.99
1128     12-2-1997   TSO Table I
                     51.15   
1134     4-7-1998    51.21,
                     51.99
1135     4-21-1998   TSO Table II
1138     5-5-1998    TSO Table I
1139     7-21-1998   TSO Table I
1142     8-18-1998   TSO Table I
                     153.001   
                     153.009,
                     153.020   
                     153.026,
                     153.040   
                     153.050,
                     153.065   
                     153.071,
                     153.085,
                     153.086,
                     153.100   
                     153.103,
1141     9-1-1998    153.115   
                     153.120,
                     153.135   
                     153.138,
                     153.150,
                     153.151,
                     153.165   
                     153.170,
                     153.185   
                     153.193,
                     153.205   
                     153.207,
                     153.999
1145     10-6-1998   TSO Table II
                     151.030   
1155     2-2-1999    151.032,
                     151.999
1156     2-16-1999   51.19
1158     4-6-1999    TSO Table V
1160     6-1-1999    50.03   
                     50.05
1164     6-1-1999    TSO Table I
1168     7-20-1999   TSO Table I
1169     8-17-1999   TSO Table IV
1182     1-18-2000   TSO Table I
1181     3-10-2000   TSO Table II
1186     5-16-2000   TSO Table IV
1187     5-16-2000   TSO Table I
1192     9-19-2000   TSO Table I
1196     10-23-2000  TSO Table V
1195     11-7-2000   TSO Table I
1197     12-5-2000   50.01
1201     1-2-2001    TSO Table I
1204     2-6-2001    TSO Table I
1207     4-3-2001    TSO Table I
1208     5-1-2001    TSO Table I
1210     6-19-2001   TSO Table I
1213     7-17-2001   TSO Table I
1215     9-4-2001    93.01
1225     10-2-2001   TSO Table I
1226     10-16-2001  TSO Table I
1233     4-19-2002   TSO Table I
                     150.001   
                     150.008,
                     150.020   
                     150.045,
                     150.060   
                     150.080,
1235     7-16-2002   150.095   
                     150.119,
                     150.130   
                     150.136,
                     150.999,
                     Ch. 150 Appendix A,
                     Ch. 150 Appendix B
1239A    8-6-2002    TSO Table II
1240     10-1-2002   TSO Table I
1239B    10-15-2002  31.02
1242     12-3-2002   31.03
1253     3-4-2003    TSO Table I
1251     3-18-2003   70.02
1267     7-12-2003   TSO Table I
                     71.01   
1269     7-15-2003   71.04,
                     71.99
1268     8-19-2003   TSO Table IV
1273     12-16-2003  153.138
1288     2-3-2004    Ch. 72 Schd. V
1280     3-2-2004    TSO Table I
1262     3-16-2004   TSO Table I
1292     6-15-2004   Ch. 72 Schd. I
1297     8-9-2004    31.20
1298     8-17-2004   TSO Table V
1300     8-17-2004   71.31
1301     8-17-2004   TSO Table II
1302     10-19-2004  91.04
1309     12-14-2004  TSO Table II
1143     2-1-2005    TSO Table I
1314     4-5-2005    TSO Table II
1318     5-3-2005    51.19
1319     5-3-2005    Ch. 73 Schd. II
1322     5-3-2005    Ch. 73 Schd. II
1324     5-17-2005   153.008
1325     6-16-2005   TSO Table V
1326     6-21-2005   TSO Table IV
1331     7-19-2005   151.060   
                     151.067
1333     9-6-2005    TSO Table V
1343     11-9-2005   TSO Table I
1336     11-15-2005  TSO Table I
1341     11-15-2005  TSO Table I
1344     1-3-2006    TSO Table I
1345     1-3-2006    Ch. 72 Schd. I
1355     2-21-2006   TSO Table I
                     151.001   
1362     5-2-2006    151.016,
                     151.999
1368     5-16-2006   TSO Table IV
1370     6-20-2006   TSO Table I
1371     7-3-2006    TSO Table V
1376     11-7-2006   TSO Table I
1383     1-16-2007   TSO Table II
1381     4-3-2007    TSO Table I
1389     4-17-2007   31.04
1390     4-17-2007   51.02
1391     5-15-2007   153.008
1397     7-3-2007    91.01   
                     91.03
1401     7-17-2007   TSO Table I
1404     10-16-2007  TSO Table I
1405     10-16-2007  TSO Table I
1408     10-16-2007  TSO Table I
1409     11-20-2007  31.21
1410     12-4-2007   TSO Table II
1418     2-19-2008   TSO Table I
1419     4-1-2008    TSO Table II
1421     4-15-2008   TSO Table I
1430     7-1-2008    TSO Table I
1432     10-21-2008  153.065
1437     10-21-2008  TSO Table I
                     71.30,
1435     11-4-2008   71.31,
                     71.99
1440     1-20-2009   130.15
1449     9-1-2009    50.20   
                     50.36
1450     9-1-2009    Ch. 72 Schd. I
1453     9-15-2009   TSO Table I
                     33.001   
                     33.008,
                     33.020   
                     33.029,
                     33.040   
                     33.043,
                     33.055   
                     33.059,
                     33.070   
                     33.077,
                     33.090,
                     33.091,
                     33.105   
                     33.111,
                     33.125   
                     33.128,
                     33.140   
                     33.143,
                     33.155,
                     33.156,
                     33.170   
1447     10-20-2009  33.173,
                     33.185   
                     33.191,
                     33.205   
                     33.212,
                     33.225   
                     33.227,
                     33.240   
                     33.246,
                     33.260   
                     33.270,
                     33.285   
                     33.288,
                     33.300,
                     33.301,
                     33.315   
                     33.322,
                     33.335   
                     33.338,
                     33.350   
                     33.358,
                     33.370   
                     33.391
1457     11-17-2009  TSO Table V
1457     1-5-2010    TSO Table V
1460     2-2-2010    TSO Table V
1464     4-6-2010    TSO Table I
1463     5-18-2010   TSO Table I
1470     9-21-2010   TSO Table I
                     33.001   
                     33.008,
                     33.020   
                     33.029,
                     33.040   
                     33.043,
                     33.055   
                     33.059,
                     33.070   
                     33.077,
                     33.090,
                     33.091,
                     33.105   
                     33.111,
                     33.125   
                     33.128,
                     33.140   
                     33.143,
                     33.155,
                     33.156,
                     33.170   
1473     12-7-2010   33.173,
                     33.185   
                     33.191,
                     33.205   
                     33.212,
                     33.225   
                     33.227,
                     33.240   
                     33.246,
                     33.260   
                     33.270,
                     33.285   
                     33.288,
                     33.300,
                     33.301,
                     33.315   
                     33.322,
                     33.335   
                     33.338,
                     33.350   
                     33.358,
                     33.370   
                     33.391
1474     12-7-2010   50.02
1476     12-7-2010   TSO Table I
1480     3-1-2011    TSO Table IV
1481     4-5-2011    110.01   
                     110.03
1486     6-7-2011    TSO Table I
                     152.001   
                     152.010,
                     152.025   
                     152.036,
                     152.050   
1488     7-19-2011   152.058,
                     152.070   
                     152.075,
                     152.090,
                     152.091,
                     152.999
1487     8-2-2011    TSO Table I
1494     12-6-2011   TSO Table II
1504     6-19-2012   TSO Table I
1503     7-3-2012    TSO Table I
1517     1-21-2014   TSO Table I
1521     4-1-2014    TSO Table V
1524     9-2-2014    51.01
1525     9-2-2014    50.02
1529     11-4-2014   TSO Table I
1536     3-17-2015   TSO Table I
1538     7-21-2015   TSO Table II
1539     7-21-2015   TSO Table I
                     32.001   
                     32.006,
                     32.020   
                     32.022,
                     32.035   
                     32.037,
                     32.050   
1543     12-15-2015  32.055,
                     32.070   
                     32.073,
                     32.085   
                     32.093,
                     32.105   
                     32.117,
                     32.999
1546     12-18-2015  TSO Table I
1544     1-19-2016   93.05,
                     93.99
1550     4-5-2016    93.02,
                     93.99
1552     5-17-2016   93.03
1554     6-7-2016    TSO Table II
1555     9-20-2016   TSO Table II
                     71.15   
1566     10-3-2017   71.18,
                     71.99
1574     3-6-2018    32.118
1588     12-17-2019  30.01   
                     30.31
1593     3-17-2020   30.06,
                     30.07
1603     3-16-2021   10.19
1604     4-20-2021   Ch. 72 Schd. IV
1606     7-19-2021   TSO Table I
1607     7-19-2021   TSO Table II
1612     12-21-2021  Adopting Ordinance
1613     2-1-2022    50.02
1615     3-15-2022   TSO Table I
1616     2-1-2022    TSO Table I
1619     5-17-2022   TSO Table V
1624     9-6-2022    TSO Table I
Res. 772 10-4-2022   TSO Table I
Res. 775 10-18-2022  TSO Table I
Res. 776 11-15-2022  TSO Table I
Res. 777 11-15-2022  TSO Table I
1629     12-20-2022  TSO Table II
                     33.185,
                     33.370,
1630     12-20-2022  33.392,
                     33.400 -
                     33.404
1632     1-3-2023    TSO Table I
Res. 778 2-7-2023    TSO Table I
1634     3-7-2023    TSO Table I
1638     3-21-2023   TSO Table I
1644     9-5-2023    TSO Table I
1646     10-17-2023  TSO Table I
1647     10-17-2023  TSO Table I
1648     10-17-2023  TSO Table I
1652     1-16-2024   30.30
1653     1-16-2024   33.188,
                     33.191
1654     1-16-2024   TSO Table I
1655     2-20-2024   TSO Table I
1657     2-20-2024   TSO Table I
1660     4-16-2024   TSO Table I
1663     6-4-2024    TSO Table I
1664     5-7-2024    Ch. 72 Schd. IV
1666     6-4-2024    TSO Table II
                     33.170.
                     33.171,
1668     7-2-2024    33.172,
                     33.173,
                     33.393,
                     33.394
1671     6-4-2024    TSO Table I
Res. 784 6-4-2024    TSO Table I
1678     11-5-2024   TSO Table I
1679     11-19-2024  TSO Table II
1680     11-19-2024  51.02
1681     11-19-2024  31.02
                    
 
 
