PLYMOUTH, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through August 10, 2021
State legislation current through June 30, 2021
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCE 30-2002
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF PLYMOUTH, OHIO,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   Whereas, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   Whereas, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Ohio empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   Whereas, the Council of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Village
of Plymouth, Ohio of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
   Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date; now therefore,
   Be it ordained by the Council of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio, six members
thereto concurring:
   Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio as
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby
adopted as and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Plymouth, Ohio."
   Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist
of the following Titles:
      Title I - General Provisions
      Title III - Administration
      Title V - Public Works
      Title VII - Traffic Code
      Title IX - General Regulations
      Title XI - Business Regulations
      Title XV - Land Usage
   Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Council and the Clerk of the Village of Plymouth,
Ohio is hereby authorized ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in
the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the
earliest date provided by law.
Passed:  11/26/2002               Robert C. Mellas, Jr.        /s/   
                     Mayor
Attest:  DiAnn Newcome Jamerson  /s/ , Clerk   November 26, 2002               
   
                     Date
Approved as to form and correctness:
                                    /s/ 
Richard P. Wolfe, Solicitor
ORDINANCE 25-2003
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF PLYMOUTH, OHIO, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2003 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Plymouth, Ohio, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio; and
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   Whereas, it is the intent of this Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at the earliest possible date; now therefore,
   Be it ordained by the Council of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio, six members
thereto concurring:
   Section 1.   That the 2003 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Plymouth, Ohio as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted
by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by this Council and the Clerk of the Village of Plymouth,
Ohio is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy
of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio. and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
Passed:  11/11/2003               Robert C. Mellas, Jr.        /s/     
                     Mayor
Attest:  DiAnn Newcome Jamerson  /s/ , Clerk   November 11, 2003               
   
                     Date
Approved as to form and correctness:
                                    /s/ 
Richard P. Wolfe, Solicitor
ORDINANCE 24-2004
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF PLYMOUTH, OHIO, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Plymouth, Ohio, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio; and
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   Whereas, it is the intent of this Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at the earliest possible date; now therefore,
   Be it ordained by the Council of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio, five members
thereto concurring:
   Section 1.   That the 2004 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Plymouth, Ohio as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted
by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by this Council and the Clerk of the Village of Plymouth,
Ohio is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy
of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio. and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
 
Passed:  9-28-04                        Keith Hebble          /s/   
                              Mayor
Attest:  DiAnn Newcome Jamerson  /s/ , Clerk            9-28-04               
         
                              Date
Approved as to form and correctness:
 
Richard P. Wolfe                          /s/ 
Richard P. Wolfe, Solicitor
ORDINANCE NO. 33-05
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF PLYMOUTH, OHIO; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Plymouth,
Ohio, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Plymouth, Ohio; and
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   Whereas, it is the intent of this Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at the earliest possible date; now therefore.
   Be It Ordained by the Council of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio, 5 members
thereto concurring:
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Plymouth, Ohio as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by this Council and the Village Fiscal Officer of the
Village of Plymouth, Ohio is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Village Fiscal Officer.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio, and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
Passed: November 22, 2005                  Keith A. Hebble    /s/             
                 
                                    Mayor
Attest  Diann Newcome-Jamerson  /s/       
                                    November 22, 2005                 
                                    Date
Approved as to form and correctness:
Richard P. Wolfe, Solicitor
ORDINANCE NO. 42-06
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF PLYMOUTH, OHIO; AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Plymouth,
Ohio, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Plymouth, Ohio; and
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   Whereas, it is the intent of this Council to accept these updated sections
in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Ohio; and
   Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at the earliest possible date; now therefore.
   Be It Ordained by the Council of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio, 6 members
thereto concurring:
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Plymouth, Ohio as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by this Council and the Village Fiscal Officer of the
Village of Plymouth, Ohio is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Village Fiscal Officer.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the Village of Plymouth, Ohio, and shall take effect at the earliest
date provided by law.
Passed: December 12, 2006                  Keith A. Hebble    /s/             
                 
                                    Mayor
Attest  Diann Newcome-Jamerson  /s/       
                                    December 12, 2006                 
                                    Date
Approved as to form and correctness:
Richard P. Wolfe, Solicitor
ORDINANCE NO. 25-2008
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE VILLAGE OF PLYMOUTH, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2008 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Plymouth, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
Village; and
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio code; and
   Whereas, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Ohio; and
   Whereas, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Village and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Village that this Ordinance take effect at an early
date.
   Now, Therefore, Be it Ordained by the Council of the Village of Plymouth,
State of Ohio:
   Section 1.   That the 2008 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Plymouth, Ohio as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted
by reference as if set out in its entirely.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Council and the Fiscal Officer is hereby
authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the copy of the Code of
Ordinances kept on file in the office of the Fiscal Officer.
   Section 3.   That it is hereby determined that this Ordinance is an
emergency resolution necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and welfare of the residents of this Village, for the additional
reason that it is necessary to immediately comply with current state laws ...
and shall therefore go into immediate effect provided it receives a two-thirds
(2/3) vote of all members elected to Council; otherwise, it shall go into
effect in thirty (30) days if passed by a majority vote of Council.
PASSED:     July 8, 2008                       Keith A. Hebble    /s/         
                     
                                 Mayor
Attest  Diann Newcome-Jamerson  /s/              July 8, 2008                 
               
Village Fiscal Officer                      Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Jon K. Burton  /s/           
Jon K. Burton, Solicitor
ORDINANCE NO. 22-2010
AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT AND ADOPT A SUPPLEMENT TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   Whereas, an updated supplement to the Municipal Code of Ordinances has been
prepared.
   Now, Therefore, Be it Ordained by the Council of the Village of Plymouth,
State of Ohio:
   Section 1.   That the supplement to the itemized sections of Municipal Code
of Ordinances prepared by the American Legal Publishing Corporation which is to
be added to and amends the Municipal Code of Ordinances, and as attached hereto
and made a part of this Ordinance, is adopted.
   Section 2.   That it is hereby determined that this Ordinance is an
emergency resolution necessary for the preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and welfare of the residents of this Village, for the additional
reason that there is an immediate need to provide updated and current
ordinances for the efficient operation of the Village to benefit its citizens
and shall therefore go into immediate effect provided it receives a two-thirds
(2/3) vote of all members elected to Council; otherwise, it shall go into
effect in thirty (30) days if passed by a majority vote of Council.
PASSED:     December 14, 2010                Keith A. Hebble    /s/           
         
                                    Mayor
Attest  Diann Newcome-Jamerson  /s/              December 14, 2010             
         
Village Fiscal Officer                      Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Jon K. Burton  /s/           
Jon K. Burton, Solicitor
ORDINANCE NO. 17-2012
   PASSED August 28, 2012
   AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT AND ADOPT A SUPPLEMENT TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, an updated supplement to the Municipal Code of Ordinances has been
prepared.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF PLYMOUTH,
STATE OF OHIO:
   SECTION 1. That the supplement to the itemized sections of Municipal Code of
Ordinances prepared by the American Legal Publishing Corporation which is to be
added to and amends the Municipal Code of Ordinances, and as attached hereto
and made a part of this Ordinance, is adopted.
   SECTION 2. That it is hereby determined that this Ordinance is an emergency
resolution necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and welfare of the residents of this Village, for the additional reason that
there is an immediate need to provide updated and current ordinances for the
efficient operation of the Village to benefit its citizens and shall therefore
go into immediate effect provided it receives a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all
members elected to Council; otherwise, it shall go into effect in thirty (30)
days if passed by a majority vote of Council.
PASSED:     August 28, 2012                   Timothy Redden  /s/             
       
                                    Mayor
ATTEST:  Diann Newcome-Jamerson  /s/        August 28, 2012                   
         
Village Fiscal Officer                      Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Jon K. Burton  /s/           
Jon K. Burton, Solicitor
ORDINANCE NO. 11-2015
   PASSED August 11, 2015
   AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT AND ADOPT A SUPPLEMENT TO THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, an updated supplement to the Municipal Code of Ordinances has been
prepared.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COUNCIL OF THE VILLAGE OF PLYMOUTH,
STATE OF OHIO:
   SECTION 1. That the supplement to the itemized sections of Municipal Code of
Ordinances prepared by the American Legal Publishing Corporation which is to be
added to and amends the Municipal Code of Ordinances, and as attached hereto
and made a part of this Ordinance, is adopted.
   SECTION 2. That it is hereby determined that this Ordinance is an emergency
resolution necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and welfare of the residents of this Village, for the additional reason that
there is an immediate need to provide updated and current ordinances for the
efficient operation of the Village to benefit its citizens and shall therefore
go into immediate effect provided it receives a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all
members elected to Council; otherwise, it shall go into effect in thirty (30)
days if passed by a majority vote of Council.
PASSED:     August 11, 2015                   Timothy Redden  /s/             
       
                           Mayor
ATTEST:  Diann Newcome-Jamerson  /s/              August 11, 2015             
               
Village Fiscal Officer                      Date
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Jon K. Burton  /s/           
Jon K. Burton, Solicitor
ORDINANCE NO. 19-2018
   PASSED October 23, 2018
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE VILLAGE OF PLYMOUTH, OHIO AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and
permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances
of the Political Subdivision; and
   WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the revision
or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are based on or
make reference to sections of the Ohio Revised Code; and
   WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Legislative Authority to accept these
updated sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of
Ohio; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF PLYMOUTH, OHIO:
   Section 1.   That the S-10 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Political Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirely.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision
on this 23 day of October 2018.
ATTEST:
DiAnn Jamerson  /s/                 Timothy W. Redden      /s/ 
DiAnn Jamerson, Fiscal Officer, MMC          Timothy W. Redden, Mayor
October 23, 2018
Date
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“municipal code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted.  Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified.  Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.”  Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.”  Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER.  When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   CHILD.  Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL.  The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY.  The county or counties in which the municipality is located.
   FIRE CHIEF.  Shall include the Chief of a fire department if such fire
department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no fire department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED.  Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the world wide web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR.  Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE.  Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY.  The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   MAY.  Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, CITY, TOWN, VILLAGE, or  MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.  When used in
this code, shall denote the municipality irrespective of its population or
legal classification.
   O.A.C.  Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH.  Includes affirmation; and SWEAR includes affirm.
   OWNER.  When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner, or
tenant in common of the whole or part of such property.
   PERSON.  Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership, and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER, and SEWERS.  Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES.  As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY.  Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  Includes boards of education; the municipal, county,
state, or federal government, its officers, or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   R.C. or REVISED CODE.  Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL.  Includes certified mail; and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE.  The State of Ohio.
   STREET.  Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts, and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT.  As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of such
premises, alone or with others.
   WEEK.  Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER.  Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners;
principals, agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING.  Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING.  The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols, or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating
to signatures.
   YEAR.  Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage.  Words and phrases shall be read in
context and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. 
Words and phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether
by legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses.  As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   LEGAL HOLIDAY, as used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this
section, means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968,” 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial day;
         (e)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence day;
         (f)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor day;
         (g)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus day;
         (h)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s day;
         (i)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving day;
         (j)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas day;
         (k)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included.  If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, such priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of
such duty or compliance with such notice.
   (D)   Numbers.  If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority.  When the law requires an act to be done which may by law
as well be done by an agent as by the principal, such requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority.  All words purporting to give joint authority to
three or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving
such authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall
be otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions.  The rules of construction shall not apply to any law
which contains any express provision excluding such construction, or when the
subject matter or context of such law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not,
except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder.
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder.
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal.
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05  CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, such reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter be
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
§ 10.06  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the Legislative
Authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the Legislative Authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the
latest in date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates
language deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted
by an earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted, or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published.  No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of such error.
§ 10.10  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15  AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section, or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language should be used by the municipality to amend,
add, or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: . . . .”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: . . . .”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: . . . .”
§ 10.16  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in
parenthesis immediately following a division or section of this code, this
indicates that the text of the division or section reads substantially the same
as the statutory provision.  Example:  (R.C. § 4511.02)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, seeR.C. §
149.43
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1994 and subsequently amended, the 1994
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(`94 Code, §     ).”
§ 10.17  PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws. 
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.  The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been
enacted.  In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18  DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the State and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended;
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended. (R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the Legislative Authority, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction;
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both.  A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for such failure.
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   MAYOR’S COURT
      
34.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
35.   INCOME TAX EFFECTIVE UNTIL DECEMBER 31, 2015
      
36.   VILLAGE POLICY
      
37.   MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2016
CHAPTER 30:  VILLAGE COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Rules of Council
   
30.02   Salary
§ 30.01  RULES OF COUNCIL.
   Following are the Rules of Council:
   (A)   Rule 1. Regular Meetings. The first meeting of Council shall be held
on the second Tuesday in January, at 7:00 p.m., unless such day is a legal
holiday, in which event the first meeting in January shall be on the next
business day before the second Tuesday in January.  Other regular meetings
shall be on the second and fourth Tuesday of each month. Special meetings shall
be at the call of Council.  Special Committee meetings shall be at the call of
Council.
(Ord. 6-84, passed 4-10-84; Am. Ord. 11-2011, passed 4-12-11)
   (B)   Rule 2. Holiday Meetings. When any regular meeting of Council falls on
a legal holiday or on an election day, Council shall set the time for such
regular Council meeting at the next regular Council meeting preceding the
holiday.
   (C)   Rule 3. Material for Council. At least 24 hours prior to a regular
Council meeting, the Village Fiscal Officer shall have available for each
Council member a copy of the Fiscal Officer's report, if required for such
meeting, an agenda for the Council meeting, a copy of all ordinances proposed
for consideration or passage at such meeting and such other documents as may be
in the Fiscal Officer's possession which will be discussed or reviewed. This
provision shall not apply to special meetings.
   (D)   Rule 4. Duties of President and President Pro Tem. The President of
Council (Mayor) shall take the Chair at the time appointed for Council to meet
and immediately call the members to order. He or she shall then cause the
journal of the preceding session to be read and disposed of, unless otherwise
ordered by Council. In the absence of the President, the President Pro Tem of
Council shall perform such duties as are imposed upon the President. In the
absence of both the President and the President Pro Tem, Council may appoint a
temporary chairman or President of Council.
   (E)   Rule 5. Questions of Order.  The President shall preserve order and
decorum and confine members in debate to the question. He or she may, in common
with any other member, call a member to order who violates any of the rules,
and shall, when in the Chair, decide all questions of order, subject to any
appeal to Council on the demand of two members. On such appeal, there shall be
no debate, but the member making the appeal may briefly state his or her
reasons for the same, and the presiding officer shall have the same right to a
similar statement.
   (F)   Rule 6. Standing Committees.
      (1)   At no later than the first regular meeting of Council after its
organization, the President (or Council, by a majority vote) shall appoint
standing committees (each consisting of three members) and designate chairmen
thereof, as follows:
         (a)   Finance;
         (b)   Public Service;
         (c)   Public Safety; and
         (d)   Village Rules and Administration.
      (2)   The President (or Council, by a majority vote) may at any time
remove a member of any such committee appointed by him, her or it and appoint a
new member to serve in place of the member so removed.
   (G)   Rule 7. Order of Business. 
      (1)   The business of the regular meetings of Council shall be transacted
in the following order:
         (a)   Roll call;
         (b)   Reading and disposing of journal;
         (c)   Reports and communications from the Mayor, directors of
departments and other Village officials;
         (d)   Village Fiscal Officer's report;
         (e)   Communications, petitions and claims;
         (f)   Report of committees;
         (g)   Approval of bonds, contracts, plats, etc.;
         (h)   Ordinances and resolutions (first, second and third readings);
         (i)   Appointments and confirmations;
         (j)   Miscellaneous business;
         (k)   Announcements;
         (l)   Adjournment.
      (2)   The presiding officer of Council may at any time permit a member to
introduce an ordinance, motion or resolution out of the regular order for the
same, unless such ordinance, motion or resolution is objected to by a majority
of the members present.
   (H)   Rule 8. Voting.  Every member of Council present shall vote on any
question on the call of the yeas and nays, unless excused by the unanimous
consent of Council, and any member not being excused, who refuses to vote on
any question when the yeas and nays are being taken, shall be deemed guilty of
contempt of Council and may for such contempt be censured by a majority vote of
Council.
   (I)   Rule 9. Reports of Committees and Officers.  The report of any
committee of Council, or Municipal officer, upon matters referred to by
Council, shall be made in writing, and on forms supplied by the Village Fiscal
Officer, and shall be accompanied by the original papers upon which such report
is based, unless otherwise ordered by Council. If any matter referred by
Council to any committee or officer is not reported upon within two weeks from
the time of such reference, such matter shall be brought by the Village Fiscal
Officer to the attention of Council, which shall take further action in the
premises as it may deem best.
   (J)   Rule 10. Motions; When Debatable; Withdrawal. When a motion is made
and seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before any debate
shall be in order. Any such motion, and any amendment thereto, may be withdrawn
by the movers thereof at any time before decision if a majority of the members
then present shall agree thereto.
   (K)   Rule 11. Division of Question.  Any member may call for a division of
the question, or the presiding officer may direct the same, and in either case
the same shall be divided if it comprehends questions so distinct that if one
is taken away, the other will stand as an entire question for decision.
   (L)   Rule 12. To Refer; Precedence. If there is a question of referring a
given subject to a standing committee or to a select committee, the question of
reference to a standing committee shall be put first.
   (M)   Rule 13. To Adjourn.  The motion to adjourn shall always be in order,
unless Council is engaged in voting, and the motion to adjourn or to lay on the
table or for the previous question shall be decided without debate.
   (N)   Rule 14. Acceptable Motions; Order of Precedence. 
      (1)   If a question or proposition is before Council, or under debate, no
motion shall be received except the following:
         (a)   To adjourn;
         (b)   To lay on the table;
         (c)   For the previous question;
         (d)   To postpone to a certain day;
         (e)   To commit;
         (f)   To amend;
         (g)   To postpone indefinitely.
      (2)   Such motions shall have precedence in the order in which they are
arranged.
   (O)   Rule 15. Ordinances and Resolutions; Introductions.
      (1)   Proposed ordinances or resolutions shall be in the hands of all
Council members at least 24 hours prior to the meeting in which they are
presented. A member of Council proposing an ordinance or resolution shall
deliver an original of such proposed ordinance or resolution to the Village
Fiscal Officer, who shall make copies and distribute them to the members of
Council. The Solicitor, if requested to prepare an ordinance or resolution,
shall likewise comply with this provision.
      (2)   Ordinances and resolutions shall be introduced only by a member of
Council present, with his or her name endorsed thereon, except such ordinances
and resolutions as may be presented to Council upon written recommendation of
some committee of Council.
      (3)   Emergency ordinances and resolutions maybe presented at a Council
meeting without meeting the requirements of division (2) hereof.
   (P)   Rule 16. Referral to Committee on Rules and Administration.  All
ordinances of a general and permanent nature, except ordinances and resolutions
for appropriation, before their final passage, may be referred to the Committee
on Rules and Administration. It shall be the duty of such Committee, as to any
ordinance or resolution so referred to it, to carefully compare the same with
all existing ordinances, upon the subject matter thereof, and to report any
discrepancy or conflict which may exist therewith. Such Committee shall also
examine and report upon the form of such discrepancy or conflict and recommend
the change necessary to remedy such discrepancy or conflict or to correct an
error in form. If an amendment shall be made to an ordinance or resolution
after the committee has reported thereon, it shall be recommitted to the
Committee for further report thereon.
   (Q)   Rule 17. Referral to Other Committees. All reports, resolutions,
ordinances or matters before Council for consideration, except appropriation
ordinances, before their final passage, may be referred either to the standing
committee to which the subject matter is most closely related or to a committee
specially appointed by the President. Any such standing or special committee
shall consider the matter thus referred to it and report thereon to Council
without unnecessary delay. Any matter referred to a committee may, by a two-
thirds vote of Council at any time prior to the report of such committee, be
taken from the hands of such committee for consideration.
   (R)   Rule 18. Limitation on Debate or Discussion.  No member of Council,
while Council is in session, shall engage in debate or discussion with anyone,
save another member of Council, the President of Council or a person who has
either been granted by Council the privilege to address Council or is present
at a Council meeting on the invitation of Council. All such debate or
discussion shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order.
   (S)   Rule 19. Hearings Before Council.  If an elector or taxpayer of the
village, or any other person, desires a hearing on a matter pending before
Council, application may be made therefor to Council and Council may, by a two-
thirds vote, grant such public hearing by arranging for a special time and
place therefor, which may or may not be during a regular or special meeting of
Council.
   (T)   Rule 20. Resignation.  The resignation of a member of Council shall
not take effect until the same has been accepted by a vote of a majority of the
members, exclusive of the person tendering the resignation.
   (U)   Rule 21. Robert's Rules of Order.  In the absence of any rule upon the
matter of business, Council shall be governed by Robert's Rules of Order.
   (V)   Rule 22. Amendments.  These Rules of Council may be amended or
altered, or new rules may be adopted, by a vote of a majority of all the
members at any meeting of Council, on report of a committee to which the
subject has been referred at a previous meeting.
   (W)  Rule 23. Suspension of Rules. Any or all of these rules may be
temporarily suspended at a meeting of Council, by a concurrent vote of a
majority of all members elected, except when a greater number is required by
law or by these Rules. The vote on such suspension shall be taken by yeas and
nays and entered in the journal. If any Rule has not been adhered to by
Council, the same shall be regarded as having been suspended.
   (X)   Rule 24. Public Meetings; Notices.
      (1)   In compliance with R.C. § 121.22, all regular and special Council
meetings shall be open to the public, except that those portions of Council
meetings declared to be executive sessions, to discuss matters set forth in
R.C. § 121.22 (G) (1) - (6), shall not be open to the public. A motion to hold
an executive session may be presented either orally or in writing, must state
the general terms for the motion, must be seconded and must receive a majority
vote of the Council members present.
      (2)   All notices of special meetings of Council shall be given to each
person filing a registration with the Village Fiscal Officer, indicating his or
her name, the phone number at which he or she may be reached at any time, his
or her address, and, if a representative, the name of his or her principal or
employer.
      (3)   All notices of special meetings, unless subject to the emergency
provisions of R.C. § 121.22 (F), shall be in writing unless time does not
permit. If time does not permit written notice to be delivered to those persons
so registered with the Village Fiscal Officer, then such notice shall be
communicated verbally. The cost of transmitting such notices, whether in
writing or verbally, shall be borne by the person registered with the Village
Fiscal Officer in the manner the Village Fiscal Officer deems proper.
      (4)   Written notice shall be deemed transmitted when the Village Fiscal
Officer delivers to the United States mail system such notice, and certifies
such fact upon his or her records.
(`94 Code, § 121.01)
§ 30.02  SALARY.
   The salary for members of Council shall be $1,000 per year.
(Ord. 32-2003, passed - -03; Am. Ord. 4-2004, passed 1-27-04)
CHAPTER 31:  VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Mayor; emergency powers
   
31.02   Village Administrator
   
31.03   Village Solicitor
   
31.04   Village Fiscal Officer
   
31.05   (Reserved)
   
31.06   Utility Clerk
   
31.07   Assistant Village Administrator
§ 31.01  MAYOR; EMERGENCY POWERS.
   (A)   Salary.  The Mayor shall receive an annual salary of $5,000, payable
bi-weekly. 
(`94 Code, § 131.01)  (Ord. 10-90, passed 3-13-90; Am. Ord. 38-2000, passed 11-
28-00; Am. Ord. 32-2003, passed  - -03; Am. Ord. 4-2004, passed 1-27-04)
   (B)   Emergency powers of Mayor.
      (1)   Proclamations of Emergency.  Whenever the Mayor determines that any
natural disaster, civil disturbance, disorder or other occurrence constitutes a
clear and present danger to the health, safety and property of the residents of
the village, or substantially impairs the functioning of the village government
and its ability to protect the lives and property of the people, he or she is
hereby authorized to proclaim in writing the existence of a public danger or
emergency.
      (2)   Special Council Meetings.  The Mayor shall call a special meeting
of Council to he held within 24 hours after the time of any proclamation made
under the authority granted in division (B)(1) hereof and shall serve notice of
such special meeting upon all Council members in accordance with the provisions
of law or a rule of Council, as may be applicable. At such special meeting, the
Mayor shall present to Council the state of the emergency. Council shall then
determine whether the emergency shall continue or terminate.
      (3)   Proclamation of Curfew. After the proclamation of a public danger
or emergency by the Mayor, he or she shall have the power to order a general
curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village, or to the village
as a whole, as he or she deems advisable, and during such hours of the day or
night as he or she deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and
welfare. Such curfew shall be declared in a proclamation by the Mayor, and the
Mayor shall immediately notify the public that such proclamation and curfew
shall take effect in one hour after the issuance of such proclamation. The
Mayor shall also warn the public that any violation of the curfew shall be
deemed a misdemeanor for which violators will be arrested.
      (4)   Emergency Orders.
         (a)   After the proclamation of a public danger or emergency, the
Mayor may also, in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all
of the following orders:
            1.    Prohibit or limit the number of persons who may gather or
congregate upon the public highways or public sidewalks or any outdoor place,
or in any theater, restaurant, place of public assembly or commercial
establishment to which the public has access;
            2.   Delineate the boundaries of any area threatened by a public
danger or emergency and restrict or prohibit the movement of persons into, from
or within such area;
            3.   Prohibit or restrict the retail sale, distribution or giving
away of gasoline or other flammable or combustible liquids or other products;
            4.   Order the closing of gasoline stations and other
establishments, the chief activity of which is the retail sale, distribution,
dispensing or giving away of flammable or combustible liquids or other
production;
            5.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing
or giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character;
            6.   Order the closing of any or all establishments, or portions
thereof, the chief activity of which is the sale, distribution or giving away
of firearms or ammunition;
            7.   Prohibit or restrict the carrying or possession on the public
streets or public sidewalks, in any public park or square or any other public
place, a weapon or any object intended to be used as a weapon, including, but
not limited to, firearms, bows and arrows, air rifles, sling shots, knives,
razors, broken bottles, fire bombs, missiles of any kind, clubs, blackjacks,
billies, chains or similar items;
            8.   Prohibit or restrict the retail sale, distribution, dispensing
or giving away of acids, caustics or other chemicals or substances capable of
being used singly or in combination to cause injury or damage to persons or
property.
            9.   Order the closing of all taverns and all private clubs, or
portions thereof, wherein the consumption of intoxicating liquor or beer is
permitted;
            10.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of liquor, beer or other
alcoholic beverages; and
            11.   Issue such other orders as are eminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
         (b)   The Mayor shall issue a proclamation of such orders to the
public through the news media and such other means of dissemination as he or
she deems advisable. Such proclamation shall also be delivered to the Chief of
Police who shall inform the businesses affected by such proclamation.
      (5)   Duration of Emergencies. Any emergency proclaimed in accordance
with this section shall terminate upon the action of Council pursuant to
division (B)(2) hereof or upon the issuance of a proclamation by the Mayor
determining that an emergency no longer exists, whichever occurs first.
      (6)   Additional Powers.  The powers conferred by this section are in
addition to any other power which may be conferred by federal law, state
statute or village ordinance and nothing in this section shall be construed to
modify or limit such authority, powers, duties and responsibilities of any
officer or public official as may be provided by law.
      (7)   Criminal Offenses in Times of Public Danger or Emergency.
         (a)   No person, in a time of public danger or emergency, shall
knowingly fail to obey any order of the Mayor issued under authority of this
section.
         (b)   No person, in a time of public danger or emergency, shall
knowingly fail to obey the order of any police officer, militiaman, fireman,
member of the National Guard or other authorized person acting under orders or
authority issued under this section.
         (c)   No person, in a time of public danger or emergency, shall
knowingly interfere with any person lawfully acting under authority granted by
this section or under any order issued under this section.
         (d)   No person shall knowingly, in any way, interfere with any police
officer, militiaman, fireman, member of the National Guard or any other
authorized person who in time of a public danger or emergency is engaged in the
protection and preservation of life, property or the public peace.
         (e)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent the
prosecution of a person under any other ordinance of the village or a law of
the state.
      (8)   Access of Information to News Media.  Divisions (B)(1) through (7)
and (B)(9) hereof shall not apply to and shall not be construed to limit access
or deny information to, or authorize the limitation of access or denial of
information to, authorized news media representatives in the lawful exercise of
their duties, which information they would otherwise be entitled to.
      (9)   Penalty. Whoever violates any provision of this section or any
executive order issued pursuant to this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(`94 Code, § 509.08)  (Ord. 19-80, passed 6-1-80)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency management and civil defense agencies, R.C. Chapter 5502
   Authority to proclaim temporary emergencies, R.C. § 5502.24
   Local emergency management organizations, O.A.C. 4501:3-3-01
§ 31.02  VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Establishment of position.  In accordance with R.C. § 735.271, there
is hereby established in and for the village, the position of Village
Administrator, sometimes referred to as the Administrator.
('94 Code, § 133.01) (Ord. 22-67, passed 12-19-67)
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Village Administrator shall have authority over all village
employees except the members of the Fire Department, including the Ambulance
Division, the Police Department and any other position that is not subject to
the control of the Administrator, as provided by state statute or village
ordinance. Such authority shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The recommendation to Council of the hiring of an individual in
those departments over which the Administrator has control;
         (b)   The assignment to any employee, in those departments over which
the Administrator has control, of any duty which the Administrator, at his or
her sole discretion, deems necessary or appropriate;
         (c)   The implementation of any disciplinary proceeding against any
employee, in those departments over which the Administrator has control, for a
violation of the conditions of employment of that employee;
         (d)   The recommendation to Council of the promotion of an employee,
in those departments over which the Administrator has control, either in rank
of employment, remuneration or in the assignment of additional duties of that
employee;
         (e)   The preparation and execution of job assignments, on a weekly
basis; the verification of hour cards or other evidence of time actually worked
by employees; the confirmation of credit for sick leave and grant same; the
determination of the length of vacation to which each employee is entitled, if
any, and the scheduling of such vacations so as not to interfere with the
normal operations of the village; and
         (f)   The preparation and maintenance of the personnel records of all
employees in those departments over which the Administrator has control.
      (2)   In addition to the duties set forth in division (B)(1) above, the
Village Administrator shall:
         (a)   Authorize purchases of, according to budgetary and
appropriations laws and ordinances, and request(s) purchase orders from Fiscal
Officer in advance for items necessary for the village, but limited to
purchases not exceeding the amount set forth in R.C. § 731.141 requiring
legislation of Council for all departments of the village;
         (b)   Timely recommend to Council the purchase or improvement of a
capital asset;
         (c)   Report to the appropriate Council committee or to Council any
matter affecting the duties set forth in this section;
         (d)   Assist the Mayor and the Village Fiscal Officer in preparing the
annual appropriation ordinance;
         (e)   Prepare specifications for the receipt of bids to buy or sell
any item for the village required by law to be advertised for bid; and
         (f)   Assist any employee required or requested to supply statistical
material to Council, but only in those departments over which the Administrator
has control.
      (3)   In addition to the duties set forth in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2)
above, the Administrator shall also:
         (a)   Water supply and distribution. Oversee the operation,
maintenance and repair of the water distribution system.
            1.   To accomplish this, the Administrator shall develop procedures
manuals, in compliance with any federal, state or local law, rule or
regulation, which shall set forth routine maintenance and/or repair activity
designed to ensure the continuous supply of water, free of impurities.
            2.   To further accomplish his or her responsibilities under this
division (B)(3)(a), the Administrator shall keep current records, charts, maps
and drawings, in duplicate, showing all activity pertaining to the operation of
the Water Department.
            3.   To further accomplish his or her responsibilities under this
division (B)(3)(a), the Administrator shall prepare projections of supply and
demand of water, costs of production vs. revenue for supply and distribution
and any other statistical data necessary to the determination of long range
action to ensure the water needs of the village. The Administrator may request
the assistance of a water engineering consultant to provide this information.
         (b)   Sewer disposal operations. Oversee the operation, maintenance
and repair of the sewage disposal system.
            1.   To accomplish this, the Administrator shall have a working
knowledge of the sewage disposal system, the location of the sewer lines, both
sanitary and storm, the operation of the pump or lift stations, and the
maintenance of the lagoons.
            2.   To further accomplish his or her responsibilities under this
division (B)(3)(b), the Administrator shall develop procedures manuals, in
compliance with any federal, state or local law, rule or regulation, which
shall set forth routine maintenance and/or repair activity designed to ensure
uninterrupted sewage disposal.
            3.   To further accomplish his or her responsibilities under this
division (B)(3)(b), the Administrator shall keep current records, charts, maps
and drawings, in duplicate, showing all activity pertaining to the operation of
the Sewer Department.
         (c)   Electric Department. Oversee the operation, maintenance and
repair of the electrical distribution system and contacts contracted company,
village, or city for repairs.
            1.   To accomplish this, the Administrator shall possess a
knowledge of the manner of supply of power from the American Municipal Power
(AMP), the satisfactory method of distribution of such power through the
distribution system of the village, and the relevant requirements of electrical
codes, either adopted as law or recommended for use in the distribution and
consumption of power.
            2.   To further accomplish his or her responsibilities under this
division (B)(3)(c), the Administrator shall keep current records, charts, maps
and drawings, in duplicate, showing all activity pertaining to the operation of
the electrical distribution system. The Administrator shall also monitor the
rates and statistical data necessary to ensure the efficient operation of the
Electric Department.
         (d)   Street Department. Oversee the maintenance, repair and
improvement of the street system of the village.
            1.   The Administrator shall assign employees to provide safe,
clean and unobstructed streets in the village.
            2.   The Administrator shall have prepared a comprehensive street
plat of the village, and from this plat submit to Council a plan for the
improvement of the streets of the village.
         (e)   Miscellaneous.
            1.   The Administrator shall oversee the collection of utility
charges and take all reasonable steps to collect delinquent accounts. All
delinquent utility, income tax, and ambulance payments or fees imposed by any
codified ordinance shall be collectible by the village or its authorized agent,
together with any interest, penalties, and reasonable administrative costs
thereon, by suit or other means. Reasonable administrative costs associated
with the collection of delinquent utility, income tax, and ambulance payments
and fees include but are not limited to fees no less than an additional 35% and
no more than an additional 50% of the total delinquent amount, including any
interest and penalties.
            2.   The Administrator shall supervise the proper reading of meters
and shall ensure that all meters are in proper working order.
            3.   The Administrator shall effectuate the procedure for turn-ons
and turnoffs and readouts of utility service.
            4.   The Administrator shall have full supervisory authority over
all Department of Human Services employees.
            5.   The Administrator shall have a working knowledge of the
applicable laws of the state and ordinances of the village.
            6.   The Administrator shall work to acquire any available grants
from federal or state authorities and, upon approval of Council, implement the
same.
            7.   The Administrator shall perform all functions and duties
required by law.
            8.   The Administrator is authorized and directed to suggest rules
and regulations, including the establishment of fees, for the use of village
facilities within the Plymouth Village Offices Building, subject to the
approval of a majority vote of Council. Such rules and regulations shall be on
file and available for inspection in the office of the Administrator.
('94 Code, § 133.02) (Ord. 9-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 22-2000, passed 8-22-
00; Am. Ord. 13-2004, passed 4-13-2004; Am. Ord. 6-2009, passed 3-10-09; Am.
Ord. 21-2009, passed 9-8-09)
   (C)   Compensation.
      (1)   For the discharge of the duties set forth in division (B) above,
the Administrator shall receive a salary in such manner and from such funds as
determined from time to time by Council. Salary increases will be set by the
Mayor and Village Council annually after the completion of a performance review
by the Mayor.
      (2)   The Administrator or such other qualified village employee as
designated by Council when duly licensed by the State of Ohio as the holder of
a Class I Ohio Water License and/or a Class II Ohio Waste Water License shall
receive additional compensation for the acquisition, maintenance and
application of such license(s), for the official use and benefit of the
village.
   (D)   Hospitalization.  The Administrator shall be entitled to group
hospitalization medical insurance covering himself or herself and his or her
family members. Premiums for this coverage shall be per current policy.
('94 Code, § 133.04) (Ord. 9-81, passed 2-26-81)
   (E)   Life insurance.  The Administrator shall be covered in a group life
insurance program with premiums allocated as provided in division (C)(1) of
this section.
('94 Code, § 133.05) (Ord. 9-81, passed 2-26-81)
   (F)   Sick leave.
      (1)   The Administrator shall be entitled to sick leave as provided in
R.C. §§ 124.38 and 124.39.
      (2)   If the Administrator exercises sick leave, he or she shall give
notice to the Mayor and make all efforts to assign his or her duties to the
appropriate personnel in the departments over which he or she has control.
(‘94 Code, § 133.06)
   (G)   Holidays.  The Administrator shall be entitled to 12 holidays, as
follows: New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Junior Day, President's Day, Good
Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday
following Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, one floating holiday per year to be
exercised at the discretion of the Mayor upon the giving of proper notice to
ensure the administrator's duties shall be performed by another or others, and
one additional day, per calendar year, to be selected by the Mayor.
(‘94 Code, § 133.07) (Ord. 9-81, passed 2-26-81)
   (H)   Vacations.  The Administrator shall be entitled to vacations according
to the length of employment, as follows: All vacation must be approved by the
Mayor prior to its occurrence and follow Section 3.10 B of the employee hand
book for days used.
 
Years of Employment Work Days of Vacation
1-2                 5
2-5                 10
5-10                15
Over 10             20
 
(‘94 Code, § 133.08) (Ord. 9-81, passed 2-26-81)
   (I)   Purchasing agent.  The Administrator is hereby appointed the
purchasing agent for the village.
('94 Code, § 133.10) (Ord. 16-68, passed 10-1-68)
   (J)   Mutual aid fire protection contracts.  The Administrator of the
village and Fire Chief will work together, in order to obtain additional fire
protection for the village in times of emergency, and are authorized and
directed after gaining the approval of the Village Council to enter into
contracts for mutual aid for fire protection on behalf of the village with
other cities, villages and townships or voluntary fire departments or any other
governmental entity. Such contracts shall contain such terms and conditions to
be in the best interest of the village.
   (K)   Work schedule.  The work schedule for the position of Village
Administrator shall be determined by the Mayor. Administrator shall be on call
for emergencies unless previously arranged and an official designee has been
assigned. All work schedule changes must be approved by the Mayor prior to
their occurrence.
('94 Code, § 133.11) (Ord. 17-93, passed 5-11-93; Am. Ord. 1-2008, passed 1-8-
08; Am. Ord. 13-2008, passed 2-26-08)
   (L)   Additional responsibilities.
      (1)   Office hours 8:45 a.m. till 5:00 p.m. with a one hour lunch as a
guideline and/or variance to be available to village residents.
      (2)   Schedule work plan for departments and notify Mayor weekly.
      (3)   Utilize vehicle log books for maintenance and usage.
      (4)   Notify Utility Clerk of whereabouts, and method of contact if not
in office.
      (5)   Return calls/e-mails in a timely manner.
      (6)   Establish an inventory and maintenance program for all equipment.
      (7)   Establish a one year and five year financial budget for departments
under Administrator's supervision. The Administrator will work with the Finance
Committee and the Fiscal Officer.
      (8)   Establish a long term capital projects plan working with Finance
Committee and the Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. 19-2015, passed 11-24-15; Am. Ord. 20-2018, passed 10-23-18)
§ 31.03  VILLAGE SOLICITOR.
   (A)   Employment; qualifications.  The Village Solicitor shall be an
attorney at law, regularly qualified and licensed to practice before any of the
courts of record in the state. The Solicitor shall be employed by Council upon
such terms and conditions as are mutually agreeable.
   (B)   Duties.  The Solicitor shall be the legal advisor of all the officers
and departments of the village on municipal matters, shall prepare such
ordinances, resolutions and motions of Council as requested, shall prosecute
criminal cases arising within the village in hearings before the Mayor when
requested to do so and in any other court proceedings as may be necessary, and
shall represent and defend the village or any of its departments in all
litigation in any of the courts.
(`94 Code, § 135.02)
   (C)   Compensation.  The Solicitor shall be compensated as determined by
Council. For improvement proceedings, the Solicitor shall receive additional
compensation and expenses as may be approved and allowed by Council.
(`94 Code, § 135.03)
§ 31.04  VILLAGE FISCAL OFFICER.
   (A)   Establishment of position.  In accordance with R.C. § 733.262, there
is hereby established the position of Village Fiscal Officer. 
   (B)   Salary.  The salary of the Village Fiscal Officer shall be payable bi-
weekly, plus all other benefits as are provided to full-time village employees,
although not specifically designating this position as "full-time". Refer to
the annual wage ordinance for specific salary.
   (C)   Duties.  Village Fiscal Officer shall have those powers, duties and
functions as provided by the general laws of the State of Ohio and, in
addition, he or she shall have the following powers, duties and functions: (1)
to carry out all needed reporting and liaison among the Village Council, the
Village Office, the Regional Income Tax Authority and village income tax payers
and/or reporters; (2) all other duties as may be determined from time to time,
by the Village Council to be necessary and consistent with the nature of the
office of Village Fiscal Officer.
   (D)   Investment of surplus funds.
      (1)   The Village Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to invest, from
time to time, any and all moneys from the various reserve funds of the village,
which are not required to be used by the village for six months or more, in
obligations of the village, in bonds, notes or other obligations of the federal
government, or obligations guaranteed by the federal government, in bonds of
the state, or any political subdivision thereof, or in certificates of deposit
with a commercial lending institution insured by the federal government.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, and to command a higher rate of
interest, the Village Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to consolidate and
invest the reserve moneys and the separate funds as one unit, but in the event
of consolidation of such funds for investment purposes, the Village Fiscal
Officer shall maintain a separate account to be known as the Treasury
Investment Account in which he or she shall enter all transactions relating to
the investment of treasury funds and such account shall be maintained in such a
fashion as to separate and determine the balance belonging to each individual
reserve fund.
      (3)   The pro rata share of the interest income shall be paid into the
parent account, periodically, as the same is received.
(`94 Code, § 137.02)  (Ord. 13-74, passed 5-7-74)
   (E)   Bond retirement fund.  Any moneys, securities and assets received by
the village for the payment of the interest and principal of its bonds or other
funded debts and all inheritance taxes and all other taxes and revenues which
are paid to the Village Fiscal Officer shall be placed by him or her into a
separate fund known as the "Bond Retirement Fund, " subject to the provisions
of law relating to transfer to other funds.
(`94 Code, § 137.03)
   (F)   Bond payment fund.  All moneys belonging to the "Bond Payment Fund"
and coming into the hands of the Village Fiscal Officer shall be deposited by
him or her into the public depository as selected by Council and shall be
protected by the bond furnished by such depository.
(`94 Code, § 137.04)  (Am. Ord. 2-2003, passed 1-14-03)
§ 31.05  (RESERVED)
§ 31.06  UTILITY CLERK.
   (A)   Establishment of position.  There is hereby established in and for the
village the position of Utility Clerk.
(`94 Code, § 143.01)
   (B)   Sources of compensation.  The Utility Clerk shall be compensated in
such manner and from such funds as determined, from time to time, by Council.
(`94 Code, § 143.02)
   (C)   Benefits.  The Utility Clerk shall be entitled to insurance, sick
leave, paid vacations and paid holidays in accordance with Chapter 34.
(`94 Code, § 143.03)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81)
   (D)   Work week; overtime.  The Utility Clerk shall be required to work a
total of 40 hours per week. The hours of duties shall be scheduled by the
Administrator to accommodate the general public. Overtime shall not be paid
unless authorized by the Administrator or the Village Fiscal Officer.
(`94 Code, § 143.04)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 25-01, passed 10-9-
01; Am. Ord. 2-2003, passed 1-14-03; Am. Ord. 22-2004, passed 8-10-04)
§ 31.07  ASSISTANT VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The position of Assistant Village Administrator is established. The
Assistant Village Administrator shall have the authority and powers granted by
Ohio Revised Code and the legislation and regulations adopted by Council for
Village Administrator.
   (B)   The position description attached to Resolution 26-2020 for Assistant
Village Administrator is adopted.
   (C)   The position of Assistant Village Administrator shall be filled for
such limited period of time and for such purposes as determined by the Mayor
upon consultation with the Village Administrator.
   (D)   During the time the employee is performing the additional duties of
Assistant Village Administrator, the employee’s hourly wage shall be increased
by $1.
(Res. 26-2020, passed 11-24-20)
CHAPTER 32:  DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Police Department
   
32.001   Establishment; composition
   
32.002   Chief and patrolmen; promotional ranks
   
32.003   Uniform and equipment acquisition
   
32.004   Reserved
   
32.005   Liability and false arrest insurance
   
32.006   Benefits
   
32.007   Auxiliary Police Force
Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.020   Reimbursement of fire and EMT training expenses
   
32.021   Establishment; composition; Ambulance Division
   
32.022   Composition and responsibilities of officers; compensation
   
32.023   Use of fire siren during weather emergencies
   
32.024   Establishment of fire lines
   
32.025   Charges for services
Community Improvement Corporation
   
32.055   Designation
   
32.056   Appointments to Board of Trustees
   
32.057   Preparation of development plan
Electric Department
   
32.070   Qualification of employees; compensation
   
32.071   Uniforms
Planning Commission
   
32.085   Establishment; members
   
32.086   Functions
Sewer Department
   
32.100   Qualification of employees
   
32.101   (Reserved)
   
32.102   Technical advisor
Street Department
   
32.115   Qualification of employees; compensation
Water Department
   
32.130   Qualification of employees; compensation
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.001  ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby established in and for the village a Police Department, to
be composed of a Chief of Police and such other officers and personnel as
Council shall, from time to time, determine.
(`94 Code, § 145.01)
§ 32.002  CHIEF AND PATROLMEN; CAPTAIN.
   (A)   Work week of Chief.  The Chief of Police shall work a minimum of 40
hours per week.
(`94 Code, § 145.02)  (Ord. 10-81, passed 2-26-81)
   (B)   Classification of patrolmen.  Patrolmen shall be classified as
follows:
      (1)   Class I - Probationary;
      (2)   Class II - Regular, after six months of probation; and
      (3)   Class III - Part-time (less than 40 hours per week).
(`94 Code, § 145.03)  (Ord. 5-82, passed 1-12-82)
   (C)   Promotional ranks.  There is hereby created within the Police
Department the rank of Sergeant and of Captain. Officers promoted into such
ranks shall be subject to a six month probationary period and shall be paid as
determined from time to time by Council.
(`94 Code, § 145.06)  (Ord. 10-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 38-2001, passed 12-
11-01)
Cross-reference:
   Work period of Police Department, see  §
34.03
§ 32.003  UNIFORM AND EQUIPMENT ACQUISITION.
   Each full time police officer, after completion of every calendar year of
full time service, shall in January of each successive year receive $500 for
the officer’s purchase of uniform items and/or equipment. Each part time police
officer, for completion of 520 hours of service in any calendar year, shall
thereafter in that same calendar year and upon the Police Chief’s written
approval, receive $100 for the officer’s purchase of uniform and/or equipment.
The Village Fiscal Officer shall make each expenditure upon the written
approval of the Chief of Police.
(`94 Code, § 145.04)  (Ord. 10-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 19-97, passed 6-10-
97; Am. Ord. 4-2001, passed 2-13-01; Am. Ord. 15-2011, passed 4-26-11; Am. Ord.
2-2012, passed 2-14-12)
§ 32.004  RESERVED.
§ 32.005  LIABILITY AND FALSE ARREST INSURANCE.
   The Chief of Police and all patrolmen Classes I, II and III shall maintain
liability and false arrest insurance. The Chief and Classes I and III patrolmen
shall maintain such insurance at the high-hazard rate and patrolmen of Class
III shall maintain such insurance at the medium rate. All premiums due and
payable upon such insurance contracts shall be paid by the village from the
General Fund-Safety Division.
(`94 Code, § 145.07)  (Ord. 10-81, passed 2-26-81)
§ 32.006  BENEFITS.
   The Chief of Police and Class II patrolmen shall be entitled to paid medical
insurance, life insurance, sick leave, paid holidays and paid vacation in
accordance with
Chapter 34. Class III patrolmen shall not be entitled to such benefits except
as otherwise set forth in this chapter or in
Chapter 34. The Chief of Police and Class II patrolmen shall also be subject to
the provisions of §§
34.05 and
34.09 through
34.12.
(`94 Code, § 145.08)  (Ord. 10-81, passed 2-26-81)
§ 32.007  AUXILIARY POLICE FORCE.
   (A)   Creation; appointment; members.
      (1)   There is created an Auxiliary Police Force, consisting of special
policemen to be known as Auxiliary Policemen.
      (2)   At no time shall the membership of such Auxiliary Police Force
exceed 50 members.
   (B)   Service.  Auxiliary Police shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor or
until their resignation shall have been accepted by the Mayor.
   (C)   Qualifications; age and residency.  Members of the Auxiliary Police
Force shall reside within 100 miles of the Plymouth Municipal Building and
shall not be less than 21 years of age at the time of their appointment.
   (D)   Commanding Officer.  The Chief of Police shall be the Commanding
Officer of the Auxiliary Police Force and shall have control of the assigning,
training, stationing, and working of such Force.
   (E)   Powers.  Auxiliary Police, when so acting and when in the prescribed
uniform, shall have all police powers of the ordinary members of the Police
Force. They shall obey the orders given to them by the Chief of Police and any
chain of command in the Police Department that he or she may designate.
   (F)   Rules and regulations.  The Mayor shall prescribe the rules and
regulations for the conduct and control of the Auxiliary Police Force. He shall
prescribe the uniform, badge, or other designation to be used by such Force. No
member of such Force shall be assigned or sent on any assignment outside the
Municipality.
(Ord. 24-2008, passed 6-10-08)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.020  REIMBURSEMENT OF FIRE AND EMT TRAINING EXPENSES.
   No person shall receive fire and/or EMT training, at the expense of the
village, unless the person shall first agree, in writing, to reimburse the
village, on a pro rata basis, for the cost of the training, in the event such
person serves the village in such capacities for a period of less than two
years. Such costs as are reimbursable shall include the fire school costs and
materials and the Basic EMT School costs and materials.
(Ord. 39-2000, passed 11-28-00)
§ 32.021  ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION; AMBULANCE DIVISION.
   (A)   There is hereby established in and for the village a Fire Department,
to be composed of a Fire Chief and such other officers and personnel as Council
shall, from time to time, determine.
(`94 Code, § 147.01)
   (B)   Ambulance division.
      (1)   That agency of government formerly known as the Ambulance
Department is hereby merged into the Volunteer Fire Department and shall
hereafter be operated by the Fire Department as a separate Division within such
Department and shall be under control of its officers, subject to the mandate
of the Mayor and Council.
      (2)   Any and all moneys standing in the former Ambulance Department
account with the village shall be transferred to the Fire Department, but shall
be maintained by the Village Fiscal Officer in separate accounts distinctly
marked.
(`94 Code, § 147.02)  (Ord. 2-84, passed 1-10-84)
§ 32.022  COMPOSITION AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF OFFICERS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Officers.
      (1)   There is hereby created within the Fire Department the following
positions and respective order of command and responsibility:
         (a)   A Fire Chief who shall be the head of both the Fire Department
and the Ambulance Division of the Fire Department;
         (b)   Up to three Assistant Chiefs who shall be second in command of
the Fire Department and the Ambulance Division;
         (c)   Up to three Captains who shall be third in command of the Fire
Department and the Ambulance Division; and
         (d)   Up to three Lieutenants who shall be fourth in command of the
Fire Department and the Ambulance Division.
      (2)   Each of the above positions and any vacancy occurring therein shall
be filled by appointment by the Mayor upon recommendation of the Fire Chief.
Each appointment shall be approved and confirmed by a majority vote of the
members of Council.
      (3)   The incumbent of each of the above positions shall be paid an
annual salary from the operation and maintenance of funds of the Fire
Department and Ambulance Division, on a pro rata basis, in accordance with the
pay ordinance then in effect. Payments shall be made in equal monthly
installments.
   (B)   Firefighters/emergency medical technicians, drivers and dispatchers.
Firefighters/emergency medical technicians, firefighters/paramedics, drivers
and dispatchers responding to calls shall be members of the Village Fire
Department. Members of the Department may be volunteers or paid part- time
village employees. Job descriptions for each position shall be maintained by
the Fire Chief.
   (C)   Compensation.
      (1)   Members of the Fire Department who meet the qualifications set
forth by Council may perform services in both the Fire and Ambulance Divisions,
but shall be paid at the rate prescribed by the ordinance for the division in
which the services are performed.
      (2)   Firefighters/emergency medical technicians, firefighters/
paramedics, drivers and dispatchers shall be compensated as provided, in
accordance with the pay ordinance then in effect by Council, payable from the
Ambulance Operation and Maintenance Fund.
      (3)   The compensation of volunteer firefighters shall be determined,
from time to time, by Council, and shall be payable monthly from the Fire
Operation and Maintenance Fund. The compensation of firefighter/EMT's who work
scheduled part-time shifts shall be determined, from time to time, by Council,
and shall be payable from the respective departments Operations and Maintenance
Fund on a bi-weekly basis.
(Ord. 7-2021, passed 4-13-21)
§ 32.023  USE OF FIRE SIREN DURING WEATHER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Council hereby authorizes the use of the fire siren to warn
inhabitants of the village of impending danger from tornado and/or winds of
unusually high velocity.
   (B)   The ranking police officer on duty and the member of the Fire
Department in charge when an advanced warning or notice of impending danger
from tornado or high wind is received, shall, jointly and individually, have
the duty and obligation to promptly sound the fire siren one prolonged blast of
not less than three minutes in duration and, at a subsequent time, to sound the
all-clear which shall be one continuous blast of one minute in duration.
(`94 Code, § 147.04)  (Ord. 15-74, passed 5-7-74; Am. Ord. 16-98, passed 7-28-
98)
§ 32.024  ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE LINES.
   The Fire Chief or the Assistant Fire Chief may prescribe limits in the
vicinity of any fire, within which no person, except those who reside therein,
firefighters, police officers and those admitted by any officer of the Fire
Department, shall be permitted to come.
(`94 Code, § 147.05)
§ 32.025  CHARGES FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Ambulance services.  The rates to be charged for services rendered by
the Ambulance Division to persons within the area of operation shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Basic Life Support (BLS) Service:               $568.00
      (2)   Advanced Life Support 1 (ALS1) Service:         $775.00
      (3)   Advanced Life Support 2 (ALS2) Service:         $1,084.00
      (4)   Trip mileage charge per loaded mile:            $14.20
(`94 Code, § 147.06)  (Ord. 13-88, passed 4-12-88; Am. Ord. 15-95, passed 5-15-
95; Am. Ord. 27-96, passed 12-10-96; Am. Ord. 31-2000, passed 10-24-00; Am.
Ord. 25-06, passed 8-8-06; Am. Ord. 26-2009, passed 12-28-09; Am. Ord. 26-2010,
passed 12-28-10; Am. Ord. 4-2013, passed 3-26-13; Am. Ord. 2-2014, passed 1-14-
14; Am. Ord. 31-2014, passed 12-23-14)
   (B)   Charges for transient vehicle fires.
      (1)   The rate to be charged by the village for services rendered by the
Fire Division to any nonresident owner of any vehicle for which a fire service
call is made with regard to such vehicle shall be $250 for each occurrence.
      (2)   The secretary of the Fire Division shall, within ten days after
rendition of the services set forth in division (B)(1) above, forward a
statement setting for the charges for such services, to the owner of the
vehicle which was the object of such services. Funds derived from such services
rendered shall be paid into the Operation and Maintenance Fund of the Fire
Division.
(`94 Code, § 147.07)  (Ord. 16-87, passed 12-8-87)
Editor’s note:
   The Plymouth Board of Park Trustees was abolished by Ord. 23-07, passed 7-
10-07.  The Village Administrator shall be responsible for the care,
supervision, and management of all village parks
COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT CORPORATION
§ 32.055  DESIGNATION.
   The Richland County Growth Corporation is hereby designated as the Community
Improvement Corporation for the village.
(`94 Code, § 158.01)  (Ord. 21-82, passed 12-14-82)
§ 32.056  APPOINTMENTS TO BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint to the Board of Trustees of the
Richland County Growth Corporation such members as the Board may authorize as
representatives of the village.
(`94 Code, § 158.02)  (Ord. 21-82, passed 12-14-82)
§ 32.057  PREPARATION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The Richland County Growth Corporation is hereby authorized, in consultation
with the officials of the village, to prepare a plan for industrial,
commercial, distribution and research development for the village, in
accordance with the powers prescribed in R.C. § 1724.10, and to submit such
plan to Council.
(`94 Code, § 158.03)  (Ord. 21-82, passed 12-14-82)
ELECTRIC DEPARTMENT
§ 32.070  QUALIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Employees of the Electric Department shall qualify according to job
description and shall be compensated, as determined from time to time by
Council.
   (B)   The payroll for each pay period shall be the actual hours of work
performed each day within the Department, as determined by the Village
Administrator and supervisory personnel, and the appropriate fund shall be
charged accordingly.
(`94 Code, §151.01)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 22-2004, passed 8-10-
04; Am. Ord. 20-2018, passed 10-23-18)
§ 32.071  UNIFORMS.
   The village shall provide uniforms for Electric Department employees.
(`94 Code, § 151.02)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.085  ESTABLISHMENT; MEMBERS.
   Pursuant to R.C. § 713.01, a Municipal Planning Commission is hereby
established. The Commission shall consist of five members as follows: the
Mayor, one member of Council to be elected thereby for the remainder of his or
her term as such member of Council, and three residents of the village. Such
resident members shall be appointed by the Mayor for terms of six years each.
The term of one of the resident members of the first Commission shall be for
four years and the term of one of such members shall be for two years. All
members shall serve without compensation.
(`94 Code, § 1105.01)  (Ord. 10-60, passed 2-23-60)
§ 32.086  FUNCTIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall function under the terms of R.C. § 713.01 and
other laws pertaining to its operation.
(`94 Code, § 1105.02)
SEWER DEPARTMENT
§ 32.100  QUALIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Employees of the Sewer Department shall qualify according to job
description and shall be compensated, as determined from time to time by
Council, from the Sewer Department Fund.
   (B)   The payroll for each pay period shall be the actual hours of work
performed each day within the Department, as determined by the Village
Administrator and supervisory personnel, and the appropriate fund shall be
charged accordingly.
   (C)   The head of the Department shall receive an additional 10% of
compensation, in addition to the base amount of compensation.
   (D)   The head of the Department shall receive further additional
compensation, as determined by Council, for acquiring and maintaining a Class I
Water Treatment License.
(`94 Code, § 153.01)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81)
§ 32.101  (RESERVED)
§ 32.102  TECHNICAL ADVISOR.
   (A)   The Administrator is authorized to hire a Technical Advisor to
supervise the operation of the pumping stations and lagoons at the municipal
sewage works.  (Ord. 20-66, passed 8-16-66)
   (B)   The compensation of the Technical Advisor shall be payable in monthly
installments, from the Sewer Fund. The Technical Advisor shall not be deemed an
employee of the village for purposes of Public Employees Retirement System
contributions and is not entitled to other miscellaneous benefits which
normally accrue to village employees. (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81)
(`94 Code, § 153.03) 
STREET DEPARTMENT
§ 32.115  QUALIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Employees of the Street Department shall qualify according to job
description and shall be compensated in such manner and from such funds, as
determined from time to time by Council.
   (B)   The payroll for each pay period shall be the actual hours of work
performed each day within the Department, as determined by the Village
Administrator and supervisory personnel, and the appropriate fund shall be
charged accordingly.
(`94 Code, §155.01)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 22-2004, passed 8-10-
04; Am. Ord. 20-2018, passed 10-23-18)
WATER DEPARTMENT
§ 32.130  QUALIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Employees of the Water Department shall qualify according to job
description and shall be compensated in such manner and from such funds, as
determined from time to time by Council.
   (B)   The payroll for each pay period shall be the actual hours of work
performed each day within the Department, as determined by the Village
Administrator and supervisory personnel, and the appropriate fund shall be
charged accordingly.
   (C)   The head of the Department shall receive additional compensation, as
determined by Council, for acquiring and maintaining a Class I Water Treatment
License.
(`94 Code, §149.01)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 22-2004, passed 8-10-
04; Am. Ord. 20-2018, passed 10-23-18)
CHAPTER 33:  MAYOR’S COURT
Section
   
33.01   Credit for fines
   
33.02   Release of prisoners
   
33.03   Records
   
33.04   Clerk of the Mayor’s Court
   
33.05   Mayor’s Court Improvements Fund
§ 33.01  CREDIT FOR FINES.
   Persons convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Code, or of any
other ordinance of the village, as the result of a hearing in the Mayor's
Court, may receive credit upon any fine in accordance with the provisions of
R.C. § 2947.14.
(`94 Code, § 171.01)  (Ord. 7-85, passed 9-10-85)
§ 33.02  RELEASE OF PRISONERS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to discharge from imprisonment any person who
has been confined for nonpayment of a fine under this Code when he or she is
convinced that such fine cannot be collected by imprisonment or when he or she
is satisfied that the health of such person is in actual danger from such
imprisonment.
(`94 Code, § 171.02)
§ 33.03  RECORDS.
   The Mayor shall be provided by Council with a good, substantial docket, in
which he or she shall enter, by themselves, all proceedings on any complaint
for a violation of any of the provisions of this Code, or of any other
ordinance of the village, in the order and manner in which docket entries are
required by law to be made, and the time in which the prosecutions from which
the items of entry are made shall take place, and he or she shall carefully
preserve and file all papers relating to such proceedings. Upon the expiration
of his or her term of office, he or she shall deposit with his or her successor
in office his or her official docket, as well as those or his or her
predecessors, which may be in his or her custody, together with all files and
papers, laws and statutes pertaining to his or her office, to be kept as public
records and property, and in case of his or her death, resignation or removal
from office, the Mayor or his or her legal representatives shall deposit such
dockets, papers, laws and statutes with the Village Fiscal Officer for
safekeeping until a successor is chosen and qualified, at which time they shall
be delivered over to such successor on request.
(`94 Code, § 171.03)
§ 33.04  CLERK OF THE MAYOR’S COURT.
   The Mayor shall appoint a Clerk with the consent of Council who shall work
under the direct supervision of the Mayor and shall serve at the pleasure of
the Mayor and Council.  The duties of the Clerk shall be to attend the hearing
of the Mayor’s Court, to administer and schedule the Court docket, to collect
fines and Court costs, to submit records, reports and payments as required by
law, and to communicate and correspond with persons appearing in the Mayor’s
Court.
(Res. 2-2007, passed 3-13-07; Am. Res. 3-2007, passed 3-13-07)
§ 33.05  MAYOR’S COURT IMPROVEMENTS FUND. 
   (A)   The Council hereby authorized the establishment of a Mayor’s Court
Improvements Fund for designated monies collected by the Mayor’s Court and
payable to the village.  The Village Fiscal Officer is directed to submit the
establishment of this Fund for approval to the State Auditor pursuant to R.C.
5705.12.
   (B)   The monies collected by the Mayor’s Court and paid to the village from
a $10 fee assessed by the Court to provide for the capital needs, including
maintenance of capital improvements, of the Court shall be paid into the
Mayor’s Court Improvements Fund and that the monies deposited shall be used to
provide for the capital needs, including maintenance of capital improvements
and education of personnel of the Court.
   (C)   All revenues received pursuant to this division shall be deposited,
maintained and disbursed in the manner provided by this division.
   (D)   Any investment of monies deposited into the Mayor’s Court Improvements
Fund shall be made in accordance with the Village Investment Policy.
(Ord. 8-2007, passed 2-27-07; Am. Ord. 11-2007, passed 3-13-07)
CHAPTER 34:  PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Approval of Council required for employment actions
   
34.02   Bonds
   
34.03   Workweek; overtime
   
34.04   Hospitalization and life insurance
   
34.05   Pay periods; withholding of pay
   
34.06   Sick leave
   
34.07   Paid holidays
   
34.08   Vacation; leaves of absence
   
34.09   Use of the time clock
   
34.10   Overtime for salaried employees; special assignments for police
   
34.11   Residency requirement
   
34.12   Longevity compensation
   
34.13   Flexible benefits plan
Family and Medical Leave of Absence
   
34.20   Family and Medical Leave of Absence policy
   
34.21   Definitions
   
34.22   Eligibility for leave
   
34.23   Notification and reporting requirements
   
34.24   Status of employee benefits during leave of absence
   
34.25   Completion of leave form
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  APPROVAL OF COUNCIL REQUIRED FOR EMPLOYMENT ACTIONS.
   No person shall be hired by the village, and no employee of the village
shall be promoted or receive a change in compensation without such hiring,
promotion or change in compensation being first approved by Council, except as
this Council may otherwise provide by ordinance or as may be otherwise provided
by law.
(Ord. 27-95, passed 12-12-95)
§ 34.02  BONDS.
   (A)   The following officers and employees of the village are hereby
required to post fidelity bonds for the faithful performance and execution of
their duties as follows:
      (1)   The Mayor, $5,000;
      (2)   The Administrator, $5,000;
      (3)   The Director of Taxation, $25,000; and
      (4)   The Police Dispatcher-Court Bailiff and Clerk, $5,000.
   (B)   All other officers and employees of the village shall be covered by a
blanket bond in the amount of $2,500 each.
   (C)   The premiums for all of the bonds required by divisions (A) and (B)
hereof shall be paid by the village from such funds as Council, from time to
time, determines.
(`94 Code, § 159.01)  (Am. Ord. 3-2003, passed 1-14-03)
§ 34.03  WORKWEEK; OVERTIME.
   (A)   (1)   The standard work week for village employees shall be 40 hours
per calendar week, unless otherwise provided. No overtime shall be worked
except with the prior approval of the Administrator or, in his or her absence,
the Mayor. An employee shall be compensated for all overtime worked by being
granted compensatory time off, on a one and one-half hour to one-hour basis.
However, when, in the opinion of the Administrator, it is more expedient and
necessary for the efficient operation of the village that overtime be paid in
cash, such overtime shall be paid at the rate of one and one-half times the
rate normally paid to the employees for his or her particular employment
classification. The Administrator shall report to the Finance Committee of
Council, on a monthly basis, the amount of overtime paid in cash. The
provisions hereof shall not apply to snow and ice removal.
      (2)   Overtime shall be based on actual hours worked in each 40 hours
workweek.
   (B)   The standard work week for all employees of the Village Police
Department shall be 40 hours per calendar week and each employee shall be paid
overtime in accordance with Section 3.02 of the Village Personnel and Procedure
Manual.
   (C)   No part-time village employee shall be permitted to regularly work 25
or more hours per week unless Council allocates funds to provide for the cost
of coverage of health insurance for the particular part-time employee.
(`94 Code, §159.02)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 17-2000, passed 7-11-
00; Am. Ord. 26-2003, passed 11-11-03; Am. Res. 1-2008, passed 1-8-08; Am. Ord.
18-2017, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. 14-2018, passed 7-24-18)
§ 34.04  HOSPITALIZATION AND LIFE INSURANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Hospitalization.  All full-time village employees are entitled
to group hospitalization medical insurance coverage for themselves and for
their dependents and dental and optical coverages to the extent permitted under
the plan(s). The premiums for such coverage shall be paid by the village from
the respective funds of the department in which the insured employee is
employed, except that the persons entitled to this benefit who are employed
with the village on or after March 1, 1993, the village shall pay a percentage
of the premium therefor as determined by Council. The employees’ contributions
shall be deducted from their pay checks from the village in a regular and
proportionate manner.
      (2)   Health insurance. 
         (a)   Part-time employees working 25 to 39 hours per week shall be
offered the opportunity to participate in the village Group Health Insurance
coverage, provided that employee pays 90% of the monthly premium.
         (b)   Part-time employees not desiring to receive the above offer of
coverage shall sign a waiver for the purpose of declining coverage.
(`94 Code, § 159.03)  (Ord. 8-93, passed 2-9-93; Am. Ord. 8-2012, passed 4-10-
12)
   (B)   Life Insurance.  All full-time village employees are entitled to group
life insurance coverage under such plan as is entered into by the village. The
premiums for such coverage shall be paid by the village from the respective
funds of the department in which the insured employee is employed.
(`94 Code, § 159.04)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Res. 3-2008, passed 2-26-
08)
§ 34.05  PAY PERIODS; WITHHOLDING OF PAY.
   The pay periods for all village employees shall be on alternating Fridays at
3:00 p.m. beginning January 1, 1979. One week of pay shall be withheld by the
Village Fiscal Officer from all persons in village employment on and after the
effective date of this section (Ordinance 8-81, passed February 26, 1981). The
one week of pay so withheld shall be paid to an employee upon termination of
his or her employment with the village.
(`94 Code, § 159.06)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81)
§ 34.06  SICK LEAVE.
   An annual sick leave bonus shall be paid to any employee who completes 12
months of actual service as a regular full-time village employee in a calendar
year as follows:
   (A)   Sick leave shall be earned and accrued without limit.
   (B)   A village employee with ten or more years of village service who
retires under the Ohio Public Employees Retirement System or the Ohio Police
and Fire Pension Fund shall be paid one-fourth of their accrued sick leave, but
not exceeding 960 hours.
   (C)   After the accrual of 80 hours of sick leave, an employee may convert
up to 40 hours thereof to vacation. An employee must upon such conversion
accrue an additional 80 hours of sick leave before again being eligible for
another 40 vacation hour conversion.
(`94 Code, §159.07)  (Am. Ord. 24-2000, passed 9-12-00; Am. Ord. 6-2016, passed
5-10-16; Am. Ord. 19-2017, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. 23-2017, passed 11-14-17;
Am. Ord. 2-2019, passed 1-22-19; Am. Ord. 18-2021, passed 7-27-21)
§ 34.07  PAID HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   All full-time employees of the village shall receive 12 paid holidays
per year, as follows: New Year’s Day, Martin Luther King Day, President’s Day,
Good Friday, Memorial Day, Juneteenth (June 19th), Independence Day, Labor Day,
Veteran’s Day, Thanksgiving Day, the Friday following Thanksgiving Day,
Christmas Day, one floating holiday selected by the employee and one additional
day, per calendar year, to be selected by the Mayor. Unless otherwise
indicated, such holidays shall be celebrated on the same date that the holiday
is celebrated by federal employees. The floating holiday shall be exercised at
the option of the employee and the additional day shall be taken on the date
determined by the Mayor, which determination shall be made in the first month
of each year.
   (B)   To be eligible for paid holidays, an employee must work either the day
before or the day after the scheduled holiday.  Vacation hours shall be
considered as time worked.  Sick hours shall not be considered as time worked.
(`94 Code, §159.08)  (Ord. 9-94, passed 5-10-94; Am. Ord. 9-2000, passed 4-1-
00; Am. Ord. 2-2009, passed 1-13-09; Am. Ord. 17-2017, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord.
18-2021, passed 7-27-21)
§ 34.08  VACATION; LEAVES OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   All full-time employees of the village shall receive paid vacation in
accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Computation of leave: Full-time employees working a scheduled 40
hours or more per week shall earn and be credited with annual vacation leave
according to their number of years of continuous service to the village of:
            Length of Service         Vacation Credits
         After completion of probation      40 hours
         After 1 year of service completed      40 hours
         After 3 years of service completed   120 hours
         After 7 years of service completed   160 hours
         After 15 years of service completed   200 hours
   (B)   An employee who becomes re-employed by the village subsequent to a
prior termination shall, for purposes of accumulated sick leave and annual
leave, commence the re-employment as a new employee and shall not be given
tenure or longevity status for the prior periods he or she was employed by the
village.
   (C)   The head of each department or the responsible board shall prepare a
vacation schedule in January of each year showing the times when village
employees, within their respective departments, will take their paid vacations.
This schedule must be approved by the Administrator for utility and service
department employees and by the Mayor for Police and Fire Department employees,
after consulting with Council before the schedule becomes final. An employee
may be allowed to reschedule his or her vacation by filing a written request
with the Administrator if he or she is employed in a utility or service
department, or the Mayor if employed in the Police or Fire Department, at least
two weeks prior to the scheduled vacation, or by applying to the Mayor for
emergency vacation time. The Mayor shall consult with Council and the
Administrator concerning utility and service department employees and the Chief
of Police concerning Police and Fire Department employees before granting or
denying any request to alter the scheduled vacation time or to grant leave for
emergency purposes.
   (D)   Every employee shall take his or her annual vacation in the form of
cash or time off within one year after becoming entitled to the same, except
employees may elect to carry over up to one week of vacation time at any one
time. An employee may elect each year to cash in vacation up to 40 hours
without Council's approval. Any employee's request exceeding 40 hours of
vacation cash conversion shall require Council's approval. Any employee who has
been authorized to receive part or all of his or her annual vacation time in
cash and continues to work during such period shall receive his or her regular
daily pay and an additional day of pay representing the vacation day accrued.
   (E)   Any village employee may be granted an emergency leave of absence,
without pay, by applying to the Administrator who is authorized to grant such
leave of absence in emergency situations. The Chief of Police must first
consent to the leave of absence of any employee of the Police Department. The
Administrator shall forthwith file a written report with the Mayor, setting
forth the name of the employee and the length of time off and, in essence, the
reason for granting such leave of absence.
(`94 Code, §159.09)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 6-86, passed 7-8-86;
Am. Ord. 10-2000, passed 4-24-00; Am. Ord. 18-2021, passed 7-27-21)
§ 34.09  USE OF THE TIME CLOCK.
   (A)   All employees of the utility and service departments and the Police
Department of the village are required to utilize the time clock facility daily
when reporting to and from work, except in circumstances where the use of the
time clock would be grossly inconvenient and impractical. Deviation from the
use of the time clock for any employee or group of employees shall only be
granted by a resolution duly enacted by Council. Failure to utilize the time
clock shall be grounds for dismissal of any employee from village employment as
shall falsification or the punching of a time card of another employee. This
requirement applies to hourly and salaried employees.
   (B)   Employees granted a deviation from using a time clock will record time
worked, vacations, holidays, sick leave and other leaves and absences on a time
card or time slip. Such time card or time slip shall be approved by the
department head, the Village Administrator or the Village Fiscal Officer prior
to payment of wages or salary covered on the time card or time slip. The
following employees are hereby granted a deviation from using a time clock:
      (1)   The Village Administrator;
      (2)   The Utility Clerk;
      (3)   The Meter Reader;
      (4)   The Cemetery Sexton;
      (5)   The Assistant Cemetery Sexton;
      (6)   The Park Custodian; and
      (7)   The Village Fiscal Officer.
(`94 Code, § 159.10)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Res. 10-82, passed 12-14-
82; Am. Ord. 3-2003, passed 1-14-03)
§ 34.10  OVERTIME FOR SALARIED EMPLOYEES; SPECIAL ASSIGNMENTS FOR POLICE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise herein provided, salaried employees shall not be
compensated for overtime work, except in cases of extraordinary emergency, but
in no event unless the number of hours worked per week exceeds 50, and even
then, only with the prior approval of the Mayor. Any compensation for overtime
work, as herein provided, must be approved by Council. If overtime is worked by
a salaried employee under circumstances authorized by this section, it shall be
paid at one and one-half times the regular hourly rate for the position or
classification held by the employee. A claim for overtime shall be submitted to
Council at the next regular meeting of Council following the time overtime is
incurred. The applicant for overtime compensation shall itemize the hours
worked and justify the need for such overtime compensation.
   (B)   An hourly rate as established from time to time by Council shall apply
to all overtime work for the purposes of snow and ice removal.
   (C)   (1)   Officers of the Police Department may be hired by various
organizations of the community with approval of the Chief of Police and the
Mayor to work special assignments, such as crowd control.
      (2)   The special assignments shall not interfere with performance of
employment schedules of the village.
      (3)   Officers working special assignments shall always comply with
village department rules and regulations.
      (4)   Officers working special assignments shall be directly hired by and
paid by such community organizations desiring their services.
(`94 Code, § 159.11)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 22-95, passed 10-17-
95; Am. Ord. 35-2014, passed 12-23-14)
§ 34.11  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   All full-time employees must reside within 12 miles of the corporate limits
of the village or must, within 30 days after completing a satisfactory
probation period as an employee, establish residency within 12 miles of the
corporate limits of the village.  This section shall not apply to or affect any
village employee who, as of August 8, 1976, did not meet the residency
requirement, until such time when such nonresident employee relinquishes such
nonqualifying residence, at which time this section shall become effective and
viable as to such employee.
(`94 Code, § 159.12)  (Ord. 8-81, passed 2-26-81; Am. Ord. 30-2000, passed 10-
24-00)
§ 34.12  LONGEVITY COMPENSATION.
   All full-time village employees shall receive, in addition to any other
compensation provided for in the general compensation ordinance, an additional
$100 annual longevity payment for each continuous year of village service until
their date of separation or retirement.
(`94 Code, §159.13)  (Ord. 9-86, passed 12-9-86; Am. Ord. 18-2021, passed 7-27-
21)
§ 34.13  FLEXIBLE BENEFITS PLAN.
   The Village Council hereby adopts a cafeteria plan within the context of
Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code for the benefit of eligible village
employees.
(Res. 9-2002, passed 2-14-02)
FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE
§ 34.20  FAMILY AND MEDICAL LEAVE OF ABSENCE POLICY.
   Family and Medical Leave of Absence is provided in keeping with the Family
and Medical Leave Act of 1993. This leave shall apply to all family and medical
leaves of absence except to the extent that such leaves are covered under other
paid employment benefit policies for any part of the 12 weeks of leave to which
the employee may be entitled under this provision. In other words, if an
employee is entitled to paid leave under other provisions of the Personnel
Policy Manual, the employee must take the paid leave first and if the paid
leave is less than 12 weeks, the additional weeks of leave necessary to attain
the 12 work weeks of leave required by the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993
shall be taken without compensation.
(Ord. 4-2008, passed 1-22-08)
§ 34.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of administering Family and Medical Leave, the following
definitions shall be and are adopted:
   HEALTH CARE PROVIDER. The term means:
      (1)   A doctor of medicine or osteopathy who is authorized to practice
medicine or surgery (as appropriate) by the state in which the doctor
practices; or
      (2)   Any other person determined by Federal mandate to be capable of
providing health care services.
   PARENT.  The biological parent of an employee or an individual who stood in
loco parentis to an employee when the employee was a son or daughter.
   REDUCED LEAVE SCHEDULE.  A leave schedule that reduces the usual number of
hours per work week, or hours per work day, of an employee.
   SERIOUS HEALTH CONDITION.  An illness, injury, impairment, or physical or
mental condition that involves:
      (1)   Inpatient care in a hospital, hospice, or residential medical care
facility; or
      (2)   Continuing treatment by a health care provider.
   SON or DAUGHTER. A biological, adopted, or foster child, a stepchild, a
legal ward, or a child of a person standing in loco parentis, who is:
      (1)   Under 18 years of age; or
      (2)   Eighteen years of age or older and incapable of self care because
of a mental or physical disability.
   SPOUSE. A husband or wife, as the case may be.
   TWELVE-MONTH PERIOD . The 12-month period during which the 12 weeks of leave
may be taken shall be a rolling 12-month period measured backward from the time
an employee uses any twelve week leave. Each time an employee takes FMLA leave,
the remaining leave entitlement would be any balance of the 12 weeks that has
not been used during the immediately preceding 12 months.
(Ord. 4-2008, passed 1-22-08)
§ 34.22  ELIGIBILITY FOR LEAVE.
   (A)   To be eligible for leave, an employee must have been employed for at
least 12 months in total, and must have worked at least 1250 hours during the
12-month period preceding the commencement of the leave. The leave may be
granted for one or more of the following for a total of 12 work weeks of leave
during any 12-month period:
      (1)   Because of the birth of a son or daughter of the employee and in
order to care for such son or daughter.
      (2)   Because of the placement of a son or daughter with the employee for
adoption or foster care.
      (3)   In order to care for the spouse, or a son, daughter, or parent of
the employee, if such spouse, son, daughter or parent has a serious health
condition.
      (4)   Because of a serious health condition that makes the employee
unable to perform the functions of the position of such employee.
   (B)   The entitlement to leave under division (A)(1) or (2) shall expire at
the end of the 12-month period beginning on the date of such birth or
placement. Leave under division (A)(1) or (2) shall not be taken intermittently
or on a reduced leave schedule.
   (C)   The entitlement to leave under division (A)(3) or (4) may be as
follows:
      (1)   The leave must be medically necessary. If leave is so requested,
then the Village may require the employee to provide medical certification to
support a claim for leave for the employee's own serious health condition or to
care for a seriously ill child, spouse or parent. For the employee's own
medical leave, the certification must include a statement that the employee is
unable to perform the functions of his or her position. For leave to care for a
seriously ill child, spouse or parent, the certification must include an
estimate of the amount of time the employee is needed to provide care. In its
discretion, the village may require a second medical opinion and periodic
recertification at its own expense. If the first and second opinions differ,
the village may require the binding opinion of a third health care provider,
approved jointly by the village and the employee.
      (2)   If medically necessary for a serious health condition of the
employee or his or her spouse, child or parent, leave may be taken on an
intermittent or reduced leave schedule. If leave is requested on this basis,
however, the village may require the employee to transfer temporarily to an
alternative position which better accommodates recurring periods of absence or
a part-time schedule, provided that the position has equivalent pay and
benefits.
      (3)   Spouses who are both employed by the village are entitled to a
total of 12 weeks of leave (rather than 12-weeks each) for the birth or
adoption of a child or for the care of a sick parent.
(Ord. 4-2008, passed 1-22-08)
§ 34.23  NOTIFICATION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   When the need for leave is foreseeable, such as the birth or adoption of a
child, or planned medical treatment, the employee must provide reasonable prior
notice, and make efforts to schedule leave so as not to disrupt the village's
operations. In cases of illness, the employee will be required to report
periodically on his or her leave status and intention to return to work.
(Ord. 4-2008, passed 1-22-08)
§ 34.24  STATUS OF EMPLOYEE BENEFITS DURING LEAVE OF ABSENCE.
   (A)   Any employee who is granted an approved leave of absence under this
policy is advised to provide for the retention of his or her group insurance
coverage by arranging to pay the premium contributions during the period of
unpaid absence.
   (B)   In the event that an employee elects not to return to work upon
completion of an approved unpaid leave of absence, the village may recover from
the employee the cost of any payments made to maintain the employee's coverage,
unless the failure to return to work was for reason beyond the employee's
control. Benefit entitlements based upon length of service will be calculated
as of the last paid work day prior to the start of the unpaid leave of absence.
(Ord. 4-2008, passed 1-22-08)
§ 34.25  COMPLETION OF LEAVE FORM.
   (A)   A request for Family and Medical Leave of Absence Form must be
originated in duplicate by the employee. This form should be completed in
detail, signed by the employee, and submitted to the immediate supervisor for
proper approval. If possible, the form should be submitted 30 days in advance
of the effective date of the leave.
   (B)   All requests for family and medical leaves of absence due to illness
will include the following information attached to a completed Request for
Family and Medical Leave of Absence:
      (1)   Sufficient medical certification stating:
         (a)   The date on which the serious health condition commenced;
         (b)   The probable duration of the condition; and
         (c)   The appropriate medical facts within the knowledge of the health
care provider regarding the condition. In addition, for purposes of leave to
care for a child, spouse, or parent, the certificate should give an estimate of
the amount of time that the employee is needed to provide such care.
      (2)   For purposes of leave for an employee's illness, the certificate
must state that the employee is unable to perform the functions of his or her
position. In the case of certification for intermittent leave or leave on a
reduced leave schedule for planned medical treatment, the dates on which such
treatment is expected to be given and the duration of such treatment must be
stated.
(Ord. 4-2008, passed 1-22-08)
CHAPTER 35:  INCOME TAX EFFECTIVE UNTIL DECEMBER 31, 2015
Section
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Applicability of chapter
   
35.03   Definitions
   
35.04   Imposition of tax
   
35.05   Effective period
   
35.06   Return and payment of tax
   
35.07   Collection at source
   
35.08   Declarations
   
35.09   Powers and duties of the Tax Administrator
   
35.10   Investigations; confidentiality of information
   
35.11   Interest and penalties
   
35.12   Collection of unpaid taxes and refund of overpay
   
35.13   Violations
   
35.14   Board of Review; appeals
   
35.15   Allocation of funds
   
35.16   Information to be supplied by owners, leasors, and landlords
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01  PURPOSE.
   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities and capital improvements of this municipality there shall be, and is
hereby, levied a 1% tax on salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation,
and on net profits as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.02  APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not apply to any person or property as to whom or which
it is beyond the power of Council to impose the tax herein provided for. 
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSOCIATION.  A partnership, limited partnership or any other form of
unincorporated enterprise owned by two or more persons.
   BUSINESS.  An enterprise, activity, profession or undertaking of any nature
conducted for profit, or ordinarily conducted for profit, whether by an
individual, partnership, limited partnership, corporation, association or other
entity.
   CORPORATION.  A corporation or joint stock association organized under the
laws of the United States, the state or any other state, territory, foreign
country or dependency.
   DOMICILE.  A principal residence that the taxpayer intends to use for an
indefinite time and to which whenever he is absent he intends to return. A
taxpayer has only one domicile even though the taxpayer may have more than one
residence. A domicile once acquired is presumed to continue until it is shown
to have been changed. Intention to change domicile will not effect such a
change unless accompanied by actual removal. Where a change of domicile is
alleged, the burden of proving it rests upon the person making the allegation.
   EMPLOYEE.  An individual who works for salaries, wages, commissions, or
other types of compensation in the services of an employer.  Any person upon
whom an employer is required to withhold for either federal income or social
security or on whose account payments are made under the Ohio Workman's
compensation law shall prima facie be an employee.
   EMPLOYER.  An individual, partnership, limited partnership, association,
corporation, governmental body, unit or agency or any other entity, whether or
not organized for profit, who or that employs one or more persons on a salary,
wage, commission or other compensation basis.
   ESTIMATED TAX LIABILITY.  The amount that a taxpayer estimates to be the
taxpayer's liability for the income taxes levied in this chapter for a year
prior to applying any credits, estimated payments, or withheld taxes for the
year.
   FISCAL YEAR.  An accounting period of 12 months or less ending on any day
other than December 31. 
   FLOATER.  An employee who does not work at the place of business of his
employer and/or who regularly works in two or more taxing municipalities during
a year.
   GENERIC FORM.  An electronic or paper form designed for reporting estimated
municipal income taxes and annual municipal income tax liability or for filing
a refund claim that is not prescribed by a  particular municipal corporation
for the reporting of that municipal corporation's tax on income. Any
municipality that requires taxpayers to file income tax returns, reports, or
other documents shall accept for filing a generic form of such a return,
report, or document if the generic form, once completed and filed, contains all
of the information required to be submitted with the municipality's prescribed
returns, reports, or documents.
   GROSS RECEIPTS.  The total income from any source whatever.
   INCOME FROM A PASS-THROUGH ENTITY.  Partnership income of partners,
membership interests of members of a limited liability company, distributive
shares of shareholders of an S corporation, or other distributive or
proportionate ownership shares of other pass-through entities.
   INCOME TAX BOARD OF REVIEW. The Board created by, and constituted as
provided in §
35.14.
   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under Chapter
1705 of the Ohio Revised Code or under the laws of another state.
   MUNICIPALITY or VILLAGE. Means the Village of Plymouth, Ohio.
   NET PROFITS.  The net gain from the operation of a business, profession or
enterprise after provision for all costs and expenses incurred in the conduct
thereof, including reasonable allowances for depreciation, depletion and
amortization and reasonable additions to reserve for bad debts, either paid or
accrued in accordance with recognized principles of accounting applicable to
the method of accounting regularly employed and without deduction of federal
taxes based on income and without deducting taxes imposed by this chapter.
   NONRESIDENT.  An individual, partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
association or other entity domiciled outside the village.
   OTHER ENTITY.  Any person or unincorporated body not previously named or
defined and includes, inter alia, fiduciaries located in the village.
   OTHER PAYER.  Any person, other than an individual's employer or the
employer's agent, that pays an individual any item included in the taxable
income of the individual.
   OWNER. A partner of a partnership, a shareholder of an S corporation, a
member of a limited liability company, or other person with an ownership
interest in a pass through entity.
   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY.  A partnership, limited liability company, S
corporation, or any other class of entity the income or profits from which are
given pass-through treatment under the Internal Revenue Code.
   PERSON.  A natural person, partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
fiduciary or association. Whenever used in a clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty, PERSON as applied to an association, means the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to a corporation, the officers thereof.
   PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any bona fide office, other than a mere statutory office,
factory, warehouse or other space which is occupied and used by the taxpayer in
carrying on any business activity, individually or through one or more of his
employees regularly in attendance.
   RESIDENT.  An individual, partnership, limited partnership, corporation,
association or other entity domiciled in the village.
   RETURN PREPARER. Any person other than a taxpayer that is authorized by a
taxpayer to complete or file an income tax return, report, or other document
for or on behalf of the taxpayer.
   SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service Schedule C filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service Schedule E filed by a taxpayer pursuant
to the Internal Revenue Code.
   SCHEDULE F.  Internal Revenue Service Schedule F filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
   S CORPORATION. means a corporation that has made an election under
Subchapter S of Chapter 1 of subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its
taxable year, treated as a corporation for purposes of the village tax.
   TAX ADMINISTRATOR.  The individual appointed to administer the village's
Income Tax Ordinance and to direct the operation of the village Income Tax
Department or the person responsible for the administration and enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter.
   TAXABLE INCOME. Wages, salaries and other compensation paid by an employer
or employers before any deductions and/or the net profits from the operation of
a business, profession or other enterprise or activity adjusted in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   TAXABLE YEAR. The calendar year or the fiscal year upon the basis of which
net profits are to be computed under this chapter and, in the case of a return
for a fractional part of a year, the period for which such return is required
to be made.
   TAXPAYER.  A person, whether an individual, partnership, limited
partnership, corporation, association or other entity, required under this
chapter to file a return or to pay a tax.
   QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in Section 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted in accordance
with R.C. § 718.03(A2).
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.04  IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   Basis of imposition.  Subject to the provisions of the savings clause
of this chapter, an annual tax for the purposes specified in §
35.01 hereof shall be imposed on and after December 9, 1979, at the rate
provided in §
35.01 per annum  upon the following:
      (1)   On all salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation earned
and other taxable income earned or received on and after December 9, 1979, by
resident individuals of the village;
      (2)   On all salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation and
other taxable income earned or received during the effective period of the
chapter by non-filers on and after December 9, 1979, for work done or services
performed or rendered in the village;
      (3)   On the net profits attributable to the village earned on and after
December 9, 1979, of all resident unincorporated businesses, professions and
other activities, derived from work done or services rendered or performed and
business or other activities conducted in the village;
      (4)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits earned
on and after December 9, 1979, of a resident individual, partner or owner of a
resident unincorporated business entity attributable to the village and not
levied against such unincorporated business entity;
      (5)   On the net profits attributable to the village earned on and after
December 9, 1979, of all nonresident unincorporated businesses, professions or
other activities, derived from work done or services rendered or performed and
business or other activities conducted in the village;
      (6)   On the portion of the distributive share of the net profits earned
on and after December 9, 1979, of a resident individual, partner or owner of a
nonresident unincorporated business entity not attributable to the village and
not levied against such unincorporated business entity; and
      (7)   On the net profits earned on and after December 9, 1979, of all
corporations, derived from work done or services rendered or performed and
business or other activities conducted in the village.
   (B)   Businesses both inside and outside the municipal boundaries.   The
portion of the net profits attributable to this municipality of a taxpayer
conducting a business; profession; pass-through entities including
partnerships, S corporations, limited liability companies taxed as partnerships
and trusts; or other activity both within and without the boundaries of this
municipality shall be determined as provided in R.C. § 718.02 and in accordance
with the rules and regulations adopted by the Administrator pursuant  to this
chapter.  The net profits from a business or profession conducted both within
and without the boundaries of a municipal corporation shall be considered as
having a taxable status in such municipal corporation for purposes of municipal
income taxation in the same proportion as the average ratio to the following:
      (1)   Multiply the entire net profits of the business by a business
apportionment percentage to be determined by:
         (a)   The average original cost of the real and tangible personal
property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession in such
municipal corporation during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.  As used
in the preceding paragraph, real property shall include property rented or
leased by the taxpayer and the value of such property shall be determined by
multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight.
         (b)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to persons employed in the business or profession for salaries, and
other compensation paid during the same period to persons employed in the
business or profession, wherever their services are performed, excluding
compensation that is not taxable by the municipal corporation under R.C. §
718.011.
         (c)   Gross receipts of the business or profession from sales made and
services performed during the taxable period in such municipal corporation to
gross receipts of the business or profession during the same period from sales
and services, wherever made or performed.
         (d)   Adding together the percentages determined in accordance with
above subsections (a), (b) or (c) hereof, or such of the aforesaid percentages
as are applicable to the particular taxpayer and dividing the total so obtained
by the number of percentages used in deriving such total.
            1.   A factor is applicable even though it may be apportioned
entirely inside or outside the municipality.
            2.   Provided, however, that in the event a just and equitable
result cannot be obtained under the formula provided for herein, the
Administrator, upon application of the taxpayer, shall have the authority to
substitute other factors or methods calculated to effect a fair and proper 
apportionment.
      (2)   As used in division (B) hereof, "SALES MADE IN MUNICIPAL
CORPORATION" means:
         (a)   All sales of tangible personal property delivered within such
municipal corporation regardless of where title passes if shipped or delivered
from a stock of goods within such municipal corporation; 
         (b)   All sales of tangible personal property delivered within such
municipal corporation regardless of where title passes even though transported
from a point outside such municipal corporation if the taxpayer is regularly
engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of sales
within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such solicitation
or promotion;
         (c)   All sales of tangible personal property shipped from a place
within such municipal corporation to purchasers outside such municipal
corporation regardless of where title passes if the taxpayer is not through its
own employees, regularly engaged in the solicitation or promotion of sales at
the pace where delivery is made.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided, net profits from rental activity not
constituting a business or profession shall be subject to tax only by the
municipal corporation in which the property generating the net profit is
located.
      (4)   This section does not apply to individuals who are residents of the
municipality and, except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 718.01, the
municipality may impose a tax on all income earned by residents of the
municipality to the extent allowed by the United States Constitution.
   (C)   Operating loss carry forward.  No portion of a net operating loss
shall be carried back against net profits of any prior year nor allowed to be
carried forward to a subsequent year.
   (D)   Exemptions. This chapter shall not be construed as levying a tax upon
the following:
      (1)   Funds received from the local, state or federal government from
military pay or allowances of the United States and Members of their reserve
components, including the National Guard, and the Peace Corps.
      (2)   Poor relief, pensions, social security, unemployment compensation
and disability benefits received from a private industry or the local, state or
federal government, or from charitable, religious or educational organizations.
      (3)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
      (4)   Receipts by bona fide charitable, religious and educational
organizations and associations, when those receipts are from casual
entertainment, amusements, sports events and health and welfare activities
conducted;
      (5)   The gross income and gross receipts of any association,
organization, corporation, club or trust that is exempt from federal income tax
by reason of its charitable, religious, educational, literary, scientific, and
the like, purposes.
      (6)   Gains from involuntary conversions, cancellation of indebtedness,
interest on federal obligations, items of income already taxed by the state,
and income of a decedent's estate during the period of administration (except
such income from the operation of a business).
      (7)   Unemployment insurance benefits, welfare benefits, workers'
compensation, child support, alimony, pensions paid as a result of retirement.
      (8)   Parsonage allowance, to the extent of the rental allowance or
rental value of a house provided as part of an ordained minister's
compensation.
      (9)   Expenses reported in accordance with federal guidelines for federal
Form 2106, subject to audit and approval by the village Income tax Office.
      (10)   Earnings and income of all persons under 18 years of age, whether
residents or nonresidents.
      (11)   Earnings and income of all persons, employed by other public
entities, for services rendered within the village, pursuant to a mutual aid
agreement with the village or otherwise performing mutual aid at the request.
      (12)   The tax provided for herein shall not be levied on the first
$1,000 of income received on mentally handicapped or developmentally disabled
employee from a sheltered workshop for adults with metal retardation and
developmental disabilities operating in compliance with rules, regulations and
standards set by the Ohio Department of Mental Retardation and Developmental
Disabilities. 
      (13)   The municipality shall not tax the compensation paid to an
individual for personal services performed within this municipality if the
individual does not reside in this municipality and performs such personal
services in this municipality on 12 or fewer days in the calendar year, and, if
the individual is an employee, the principal place of business of the
individual's employer is located outside this municipality.  This exemption
does not apply to professional entertainers or professional athletes or to
promoters of professional entertainment or sports events and their employees,
as reasonably defined by this municipality.
      (14)   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits
or losses of an S corporation.
      (15)   Qualifying wages as defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.05  EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   This chapter shall continue effective insofar as the levy of taxes is
concerned through December 8, 1999, and thereafter on a continuing basis.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.06  RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   Return required. 
      (1)   Effective January 1, 2002, all residents, 18 years of age or older,
shall file an annual return, notwithstanding whether Plymouth municipal income
tax has been withheld by an employer or any other reason, except in such cases
when a resident qualifies for an exemption, for such reasons as approved in §
35.04(D).
      (2)   As for nonresidents having income subject to the village municipal
income tax, the return of an employer or employers showing that the correct
amount of village municipal income tax has been deducted by the employer or
employers from the salaries, wages or compensation of any such employee, and
has been paid by the employer or employers to the village, shall be accepted as
the return required of any such employee. Otherwise, nonresidents, having
income subject to the village municipal income tax, shall also file an annual
village municipal income tax return. The filing deadline shall be April 15 of
each year.
   (B)   Return filed with Tax Administrator.  The annual tax return shall be
filed with the Tax Administrator on a form or forms furnished by or obtainable
upon request from such Tax Administrator or on a generic form of such return. 
In either case the return shall set forth the following:
      (1)   The aggregate amounts of salaries, wages, commissions and other
compensation earned and gross income from business, profession or other
activity, less allowable ordinary reasonable, and necessary expenses incurred
in the acquisition of such gross income earned during the preceding year and
subject to said tax.
      (2)   The amount of tax imposed by this chapter on such earnings and
profits; and
      (3)   Such other pertinent statements, information returns, or other
information as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   Extension. Any taxpayer that is not delinquent in filing the required
municipal income tax return may request an extension by sending a copy of the
federal income tax extension to the Tax Administrator. Upon receipt an
extension of six weeks beyond the IRS extension shall be granted. The granting
of the extension for filing the income tax return does not extend the last date
for payment of the tax without penalty unless the Tax Administrator also grants
an extension of that date for payment of the tax.
   (D)   Payment of tax.
      (1)   The taxpayer making a return shall, at the time of the filing
thereof, pay to the Tax Administrator the amount of taxes shown as due thereon;
provided, however, that where any portion of the tax so due shall have been
deducted at the source pursuant to the provisions of §
35.08, hereof, shall be deducted from the amount shown to be due and only the
balance, if any, shall be due and payable at the time of filing said return.
      (2)   A taxpayer who has overpaid the amount of tax to which this
municipality is entitled under the provisions of this chapter may have such
overpayment applied against any subsequent liability hereunder or, at his
election indicated on the return, such overpayment (or part thereof) shall be
refunded, provided that no additional taxes or refunds of less that $1 shall be
collected or refunded.
   (E)   Amended returns.
      (1)   Where necessary, an amended return must be filed in order to report
additional income and pay any additional tax due, or claim a refund of tax
overpaid, subject to the requirements and/or limitations contained in §
35.12.  Such amended returns shall be on a form obtainable on request from the
Tax Administrator or on a generic form of such a return.  A taxpayer may not
change the method of accounting or apportionment of net profits after the due
date for filing the original return.
      (2)  Within three  months from the final determination of any federal tax
liability affecting the taxpayer's tax liability to this municipality, such
taxpayer shall make and file an amended return showing income subject to the
income tax of this municipality based upon such final determination of federal
tax liability, and pay any additional tax shown due thereon or make claim for
refund of any overpayment.
   (F)   Internet access.  On or after January 1, 2002, pursuant to the state
Sub. House Bill 477, the municipality shall create electronic versions of any
rules or ordinances governing the rate of tax; payment and withholding of
taxes; filing any prescribed returns, reports, or other documents; dates for
filing or paying taxes, including estimated taxes; penalties, interest,
assessment, and other collection remedies; rights of taxpayers to appeal; and
procedures for filing appeals.  On and after that date, the municipality shall
make blanks of such returns, reports, or documents, and any instructions
pertaining thereto, available to the public electronically through the
internet. 
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07; Am. Ord. 6-2012, passed 4-24-12)
§ 35.07  COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Duty of withholding and payment of tax withheld by employer.
      (1)   Each employer within or doing business within this municipality
shall deduct at the time of the payment of such salary, wage, commission or
other compensation, the tax of 1% of the gross salaries, wages, commissions or
other compensation due by the said employer to said employee or the tips or
gratuities reported to said employer by each said employee for social security
or federal income tax purposes and shall on or before the last day of the month
following the close of each calendar quarter make a return and pay to the Tax
Administrator the amount of taxes so deducted.  Said returns shall be on a form
or forms prescribed by or acceptable to the Tax Administrator and shall be
subject to the rules and regulations prescribed therefore by the Tax
Administrator. 
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have the authority to require monthly
payments from employers who withhold greater than $ 300 dollars a month.  The
employer shall on or before the last day of the month following the close of
each month make a return and pay to the Tax Administrator the amount of taxes
so deducted.  The return shall be on a form or forms prescribed by or
acceptable to the Tax Administrator and shall be subject to the rules and
regulations prescribed by the Tax Administrator. Nothing in this section
prohibits an employer from withholding tax on a basis greater than qualifying
wages. 
      (3)   Such employer shall be liable for the payment of the tax required
to be deducted and withheld, whether or not such taxes have in fact been
withheld. 
      (4)   An employer is not required to make any withholding with respect to
an individual's disqualifying disposition of an incentive stock option if, at
the time of the disqualifying disposition, the individual is not an employee of
the corporation with respect to whose stock the option has been issued
      (5)   (a)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer to withhold the tax as required by a municipal
corporation or by the employer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the
tax.
         (b)   The failure of an employer to remit to the municipal corporation
the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability for that tax unless the
employee colluded with the employer in connection with the failure to remit the
tax withheld.
      (6)   Compensation deferred before the effective date of this amendment
is not subject to any municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax
withholding requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not
constitute qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or
distributed.
      (7)   Such employer in collecting said tax shall be deemed to hold the
same, until payment is made by such employer to this municipality, as a Trustee
for the benefit of this municipality and any such tax collected by such
employer from his employees, shall, until the same is paid to this
municipality, be deemed a trust fund in the hands of such employer.
   (B)   Withholding return. List of employees.
      (1)   Each employer shall file a withholding tax reconciliation W-3 form
showing the sum total of all compensation paid all employees, the portion of
which, if any, was not subject to withholding along with an explanation for
same, and the portion of which was subject to withholding, together with the
amount of such withholdings remitted. Such reconciliation shall include Form W-
2 for each employee or a list of employees containing W-2 information
concerning each employee from whom the village tax was withheld, showing the
name, address, zip code and social security number of each such employee, the
total amount of compensation paid during the year and the amount of village tax
withheld. If the total tax withheld from any employee included tax withheld and
remitted to another taxing municipality, the amount of same shall be separately
shown on the return of information to the village concerning each employee. The
withholding tax reconciliation shall be filed by each employer on or before
February 28 following the end of such calendar year.
      (2)   If more than the amount of tax required to be deducted by this
chapter is withheld from the employee's pay, the excess shall be refunded by
the employer to the employee. If less than the amount of tax required to be
deducted is deducted and withheld by the employer in any pay period or pay
periods, the deficiency shall be deducted in subsequent pay periods.
      (3) When an employer has withheld the tax from all wages of a nonresident
of the village and such nonresident has been employed outside the village for
all or a part of the time and has been withheld for or has paid taxes due
another municipality as a result of that employment, such employee shall file a
claim with the Tax Administrator covering such erroneous withholding and the
Tax Administrator shall, upon verification thereof by the employer, refund to
the employee the amount of such withholding paid to another municipality,
subject to the requirements and limitations contained in §
35.12.
   (C)   Form 1099 Reporting.  In addition to the wage reporting of this
section, any person required by the Internal Revenue Service to report on Form
1099-Misc. payments to individuals not treated as employees for services
performed shall also report such payment to the village when the services were
performed in the village. The information may be submitted on a listing, and
shall include the name, address and social security number (or federal
identification number), and the amount of the payments made. Federal Form(s)
1099 may be submitted in lieu of such listing. The information shall be filed
annually on or before February 28.
   (D)   Domestic servants. However, no person shall be required to withhold
the tax on the qualifying wages, commissions, other compensation and other
taxable income paid to domestic servants employed exclusively in or about such
person's residence. However, such domestic servants shall be responsible for
filing and paying their own returns and taxes.
   (E)   Fractional parts of cents. In deducting and withholding tax at the
source and in payment of any tax due under this chapter, a fractional part of a
cent shall be disregarded unless it amounts to $0.005 or more in which case it
shall be increased to $0.01.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.08  DECLARATIONS.
   (A)   Every person who anticipates any taxable income which is not or will
not be withheld by an employer or employers subject to §
35.07, or who engages in any business, profession, enterprise or activity
subject to the tax imposed by §
35.04, shall file a declaration setting forth such estimated income or the
estimated profit or loss from such business activity together with the
estimated tax due thereon, if any. Provided, however, if a person's income is
wholly from qualifying wages from which the tax will be withheld and remitted
to this village in accordance with §§
35.04 and
35.07 such person need not file a declaration.
   (B)   A taxpayer's final return for the preceding year may be used as the
basis for computing his declaration of estimated tax for the current year. In
the event a taxpayer has not previously been required to file a return, a
declaration of estimated tax on anticipated income shall be filed in good
faith.
   (C)   If a person's estimated liability is less than $100 for the year no
declaration is required.
   (D)   Dates for filing. 
      (1)   Such declaration shall be filed on or before April 15 of each year
during the effective period of this chapter, or on or before the fifteenth day
of the fourth month following the date the taxpayer first becomes subject to
the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Those taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a
declaration on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
start of each fiscal year or period. 
      (3)   Forms.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, such declaration of estimated
tax to be paid the Municipality shall be accompanied by a payment of at least
22.5% of the estimated tax liability for the current year and at least a
similar amount shall be paid on or before the last day of July, October and
January after the beginning of the taxable year.
         (b)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, such declaration of
estimated tax to be paid the Municipality shall be accompanied by a payment of
at least 22.5% of the estimated tax liability for the current year and at least
a similar amount shall be paid on or before the fifteenth day of June,
September and December after the beginning of the taxable year.
         (c)   The mere submission of a declaration estimating a tax liability
shall not constitute filing unless accompanied by the required payment.
   (E)   Amended declaration.
      (1)   A declaration may be amended at any time, provided, however, that
in case an amended declaration is filed, the unpaid balance shown due thereon
shall be paid in equal installments on or before the remaining payment dates.
      (2)   An amended declaration must be filed on or before the last day of
the month following the close of the taxpayer's tax year, if it appears that
the original declaration made for such year underestimated the taxpayer's
income by 10% or more. At such time a payment, which together with prior
payments, is sufficient to pay the taxpayer's entire estimated liability, shall
be made. If, upon the filing of the return required it appears that the
taxpayer did not pay 90% of his tax liability, as shown on such return, on or
before the last day of the month following the close of the tax year, the
difference between 90% of such taxpayer's tax liability and the amount of
estimated tax he actually paid on or before such date shall be subject to the
interest and penalty provisions of §
35.11.
      (3)   In the event an amended declaration has been filed the unpaid
balance shown due thereon shall be paid in equal installments over the
remaining payment dates.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.09  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator shall receive the tax imposed by this chapter in
the manner prescribed herein from the taxpayers, keep an accurate record
thereof and report all moneys so received. All cashiers handling tax moneys
shall be subject directly to Tax Administrator and shall give daily accountings
to the Agency.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator shall enforce the payment of all taxes owed to
the village and keep accurate records for a minimum of five years showing the
amount due from each taxpayer required to file a declaration and/or make any
return including taxes withheld, and showing the dates and amounts of payments
thereof.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator is hereby charged with the enforcement of this
chapter and shall enforce the rules and regulations of Council relating to any
matter or thing pertaining to the collection of village income taxes and the
administration and enforcement of this chapter, including provisions for the
examination and correction of returns and payments.
   (D)   In any case where a taxpayer has failed to file a return or has filed
a return which does not show the proper amount of tax due, the village may
determine the amount of tax appearing to be due to the village from the
taxpayer and shall send to such taxpayer a written statement showing the amount
of tax so determined, together with the interest and penalties thereon, if any.
   (E)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall have the power to abandon,
aggregate, compromise or abate any liability, interest or penalty imposed by
this chapter, for any of the following specific reasons and no other:
         (a)   Relative prohibitive cost of collection;
         (b)   De minimums; or
         (c)   Reasonable cause.
      (2)   Over and beyond these specific reasons, the Tax Administrator shall
have the power to compromise any interest or penalty, or both, imposed by this
chapter, subject to the consent of the Board of Review or pursuant to the
regulations approved by Council. All administrative settlements made under this
chapter shall be made a matter of record in the respective taxpayer's account
file.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.10  INVESTIGATIONS; CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to examine the books, papers
and records of any employer or of any taxpayer or person subject to, or
believed to be subject to, the tax imposed under this chapter, for the purpose
of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was made, to
ascertain the tax due. Every such employer, supposed employer, taxpayer or
supposed taxpayer, is hereby directed and required to furnish to Tax
Administrator within 30 days following a written request by the Agency, the
means, facilities and opportunity for making such examinations and
investigations as are hereby authorized.
   (B)   Tax Administrator is hereby authorized to examine any person, employer
or employee, under oath, concerning any income which was or should have been
returned for taxation and, for this purpose, may compel the production of books
and federal income tax records, papers and returns and the attendance of all
persons before him or her, whether as parties or witnesses, wherever the
Director believes such persons have knowledge of such income.
   (C)   The refusal to produce books, papers, records and federal income tax
returns, or the refusal to submit to such examination by any employer or person
subject or presumed to be subject to the tax, or by any officer, agent or
employee of a person subject to the tax or required to withhold the tax, or the
failure of any person to comply with this section or with any order or subpoena
of Tax Administrator authorized hereby, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter, punishable as provided in §
35.99.
   (D)   Tax returns, investigations, hearings and all audit papers and
information connected therewith are confidential and shall be carefully
preserved so that they are not available for inspection by anyone other than
the proper agents of the village for official purposes.
   (E)   Any information gained as the result of the filing of a tax return, or
an investigation, hearing or verification required or authorized by this
chapter, shall be confidential, except for official purposes, except in
accordance with proper judicial order and except for anonymous aggregates and
statistics compiled from the system useful to the management of the village and
the promotion of the interests of commerce, industry and the citizenry. No
person shall divulge such information.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.11  INTEREST AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   All taxes imposed by this chapter, including taxes withheld or
required to be withheld from wages by an employer and remaining unpaid after
they have become due, shall bear interest on the amount of the unpaid tax at
the rate of 1% per month, and the taxpayers upon whom such taxes are imposed,
and the employers required by this chapter to deduct, withhold and pay taxes
imposed, by this chapter shall be liable, in addition to the tax and interest
to a penalty in the amount of 1% per month on the amount of the unpaid tax for
each month or fraction thereof.
      (1)   Twenty dollars for individuals using a Social Security Number.
      (2)   One hundred dollars for corporations, businesses, associations, or
other entities using a Federal Tax Identification Number.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may abate interest or penalty, or both, limited
to reasons of de minimums or reasonable cause. Beyond such limited reasons, the
Board of Review may abate such interest or penalty, or both, upon
recommendation of Tax Administrator, upon appeal from the refusal of Tax
Administrator to so recommend, the  Board may nevertheless abate such interest
or penalty, or both.
   (C)   Each year, during the month of January, the Tax Administrator may
cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation with the
Municipality a list of persons who are delinquent in the payment of their
Municipal Income Tax or who have otherwise failed to comply with the Income Tax
regulations; provided that such persons have been notified by mail of the date
of publication within thirty days prior to publication.
   (D)   Any persons, firm or corporation required to file a W-3 Wage
Reconciliation Form under §
35.07(B)(1) and fails to do so by February 28 following the close of the year
shall be assessed a penalty of $10 for each W-2 covered or $100, whichever is
greater.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.12  COLLECTION OF UNPAID TAXES AND REFUND OF OVERPAY.
   All taxes imposed and administered by this chapter shall be collectible,
together with any interest and penalties thereon by suit, as other debts of
like amount are recoverable.
   (A)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and penalties and
interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within three years after
the tax was due or the return was filed, whichever is later.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under this chapter shall
be commenced within three years after the commission of the offense; provided
that the case of fraud, failure to file a return, or the omission of 25% or
more of income required to be reported, prosecutions may be commenced within
six years after the commission of the offense.
   (C)   All applications for refund shall be made within three years after the
tax was due or the return was filed, whichever is later.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
Cross-reference:
   Collection by Village Administrator, see §
31.02(B)(3)(e)1.
§ 35.13 VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required by
this chapter;
   (B)   Make any incomplete, false or fraudulent return;
   (C)   Fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalty or interest imposed by
this chapter;
   (D)   Fail, neglect or refuse to withhold the tax from employees or to remit
such withholding to Tax Administrator;
   (E)   Refuse to permit Tax Administrator to examine the books, records,
papers and federal income tax returns relating to the income or net profits of
a taxpayer;
   (F)   Fail to appear before Tax Administrator and to produce the books,
records, papers and federal income tax returns relating to the income or net
profits of a taxpayer under order or subpoena of Tax Administrator;
   (G)   Refuse to disclose to Tax Administrator any information with respect
to the income or net profits of a taxpayer;
   (H)   Fail to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter or any order
or subpoena of Tax Administrator authorized hereby; or
   (I)   Attempt to do anything to avoid the payment of the whole or any part
of the tax, penalty or interest imposed by this chapter.
   (J)   Directly or indirectly, knowingly provide to Tax Administrator any
false information, relating to information required by the Agency in the
administration of this chapter, including, but not limited to, Social Security
number and residence address.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.14  BOARD OF REVIEW; APPEALS.
   (A)   A Board of Review, consisting of three electors of the village, one to
be appointed by the Mayor, one to be appointed by Fiscal Officer and one to be
selected by the two so appointed, is hereby established. No member shall be
appointed to the Board who holds another public office or appointment. The
members of the Board shall serve without pay.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The
Board shall adopt its own procedural rules and shall keep a record of its
transactions.
   (C)   All hearings of the Board shall be conducted privately and the
provisions of §
35.10 with reference to the confidentiality of information shall apply to such
matters as may be heard before the Board on appeal.
   (D)   Any person dissatisfied with any ruling or decision of the Director of
Taxation which is made under the authority conferred by this chapter and the
rules and regulations related thereto may appeal there from to the Board within
30 days from the announcement of such ruling or decision by the Director, and
the Board shall, on hearing, have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse or modify any
such ruling or decision, or a part thereof.
   (E)   Any person dissatisfied with a ruling or decision of the Board may
appeal there from to a court of competent jurisdiction or the Ohio Board of
Taxation within 30 days from the announcement of such ruling or decision.
   (F)   The Board, as created, shall serve during the life of this chapter.
   (G)   The Board shall follow the practice and procedures of R.C. § 718.11.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.15  ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under this chapter shall be deposited in the Income Tax
Fund and such moneys collected or on deposit from and after January 1, 2008,
shall be disbursed in the following order:
   (A)   Such part thereof as is necessary to defray all costs of collecting
taxes, of administering and enforcing this chapter and to maintain a $10,000
month end balance.
   (B)   For the Village General Fund, 100%, after deduction of costs set forth
in division (A) hereof.
   (C)   For capital improvements, 50%, including but not limited to
development and construction of water, sewer and street improvements; for
public buildings, parks and playgrounds, and for equipment necessary for all
village departments,  after deduction of costs set forth in division (A)
hereof.
   (D)   Transfer of funds from the Income Tax Fund shall be done, less all
costs of collecting, administering and enforcing the village income tax as the
Village Fiscal Officer determines to be necessary and appropriate.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07; Am. Ord. 20-2011, passed 9-13-11; Am. Ord. 25-
2011, passed 11-22-11)
§ 35.16  INFORMATION TO BE SUPPLIED BY OWNERS, LEASORS AND LANDLORDS.
   (A)   For each piece or parcel of real property, residential, commercial or
otherwise, located within the village and leased or rented on or after the
effective date of this chapter, the owner, leasor, or landlord thereof shall,
within 30 days of the effective date hereof, inform the office of the Village
Tax Administrator in writing of the name and address of each lessee, renter, or
tenant thereof.
   (B)   Within 15 days of the termination of any tenancy, the owner, lessor,
or landlord shall notify the office of the Village Tax Administrator in writing
of the forwarding address of the previous lessee, renter or tenant.
   (C)   Every owner, lessor or landlord subject to the provisions of division
(A) of this section is under a continuing duty to notify the office of the
Village Tax Administrator whenever a piece or parcel of real property,
residential, commercial or otherwise, is again rented to any subsequent lessee,
renter, or tenant. Such notification shall provide the same information to the
office of the Village Tax Administrator as division (A).
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter, for which no penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree and shall be fined not more than $500 or imprisoned not
more than 60 days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance
occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
35.13 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree and shall be fined not
more than $750 or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both, for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues. In addition, any employee of the village who
violates §
35.13 may be immediately dismissed from the service of the village.
(Ord. 31-2007, passed 12-18-07)
CHAPTER 36:  VILLAGE POLICY
Section
   
36.01   Smoking banned in village buildings
   
36.02   Public Records Management Policy
   
36.03   Identity Theft Policy
   
36.04   Mayor’s written approval for certain expenditures
   36.05   Security payments from insurance companies to secure actual repair,
removal or securing of fire damaged structures
   36.06   Credit card usage policy
§ 36.01  SMOKING BANNED IN VILLAGE BUILDINGS.
   All smoking is hereby banned within all village buildings.
(Ord. 14-96, passed 5-14-96)
§ 36.02  PUBLIC RECORDS MANAGEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Introduction.   It is the policy of the village that openness leads to
a better informed citizenry, which leads to better government and better public
policy. It is the policy of this village to strictly adhere to the state's
Public Records Act. All exemptions to openness are to be construed in their
narrowest sense and any denial of public records in response to a valid request
must be accompanied by an explanation, including legal authority, as outlined
in the Ohio Revised Code. If the request is in writing, the explanation must
also be in writing.
   (B)   Public records. 
      (1)   This village, in accordance with the Ohio Revised Code, defines
records as including the following: Any document – paper, electronic
(including, but not limited to, e-mail), or other format – that is created or
received by, or comes under the jurisdiction of a public office that documents
the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or
other activities of the public office. All records of this village are public
unless they are specifically exempt from disclosure under the Ohio Revised
Code.
      (2)   It is the policy of this village that, as required by Ohio law,
records will be organized and maintained so that they are readily available for
inspection and copying (See division (E) for the e-mail record policy). Record
retention schedules are to be updated regularly and posted prominently.
   (C)   Record requests.  Each request for public records should be evaluated
for a response using the following guidelines:
      (1)   Although no specific language is required to make a request, the
requester must at least identify the records requested with sufficient clarity
to allow the Village Records Manager to identify, retrieve, and review the
records. If it is not clear what records are being sought, the Village Records
Manager must contact the requester for clarification, and should assist the
requestor in revising the request by informing the requestor of the manner in
which the village keeps its records. Form VR100 may be used by a requester.
Form VR100 is attached to this policy.
      (2)   The requester does not have to put a records request in writing,
and does not have to provide his or her identity or the intended use of the
requested public record. It is this village's general policy that this
information is not to be requested.
      (3)   Public records are to be available for inspection during regular
business hours, with the exception of published holidays. Public records must
be made available for inspection promptly. Copies of public records must be
made available within a reasonable period of time. "Prompt" and "reasonable"
take into account the volume of records requested; the proximity of the
location where the records are stored; and the necessity for any legal review
of the records requested.
      (4)   Each request should be evaluated for an estimated length of time
required to gather the records.
         (a)   Routine requests for records should be satisfied immediately if
feasible to do so. Routine requests include, but are not limited to, meeting
minutes (both in draft and final form), budgets, salary information, forms and
applications, personnel rosters, etc. If fewer than 20 pages of copies are
requested or if the records are readily available in an electronic format that
can be e-mailed or downloaded easily, these should be made as quickly as the
equipment allows. If more copies are requested, an appointment should be made
with the requester on when the copies or computer files can be picked up.
         (b)   All requests for public records must either be satisfied (see
division (4)(a)) or be acknowledged in writing by the Village Records Manager
within three business days following the village's receipt of the request. If a
request is deemed significantly beyond "routine," such as seeking a voluminous
number of copies or requiring extensive research, the acknowledgment must
include the following:
            1.   An estimated number of business days it will take to satisfy
the request.
            2.   An estimated cost if copies are requested.
            3.   Any items within the request that may be exempt from
disclosure.
      (5)   Any denial of public records requested must include an explanation,
including legal authority. If portions of a record are public and portions are
exempt, the exempt portions are to be redacted and the rest released. If there
are redactions, each redaction must be accompanied by a supporting explanation,
including legal authority.
   (D)   Costs for public records.  Those seeking public records will be
charged only the actual cost of making copies.
      (1)   The charge for paper copies is five cents per page.
      (2)   The charge for downloaded computer files to a compact disc is $1
per disc.
      (3)   There is no charge for documents e-mailed.
      (4)   Requesters may ask that documents be mailed to them. They will be
charged the actual cost of the postage and mailing supplies.
      (5)   All payments must be paid in advance.
   (E)   E-mail.  Documents in electronic mail format are records as defined by
the Ohio Revised Code when their content relates to the business of the
village. E-mail is to be treated in the same fashion as records in other
formats and should follow the same retention schedules.
      (1)   Records in private e-mail accounts used to conduct public business
are subject to disclosure, and all employees or representatives of this Village
are instructed to retain their e-mails that relate to public business (see
division (B)) and to copy them to their business e-mail accounts and/or to the
Village Records Manager.
      (2)   The Village Records Manager is to treat the e-mails from private
accounts as records of the village, filing them in the appropriate way,
retaining them per established schedules and making them available for
inspection and copying in accordance with the Public Records Act.
   (F)   Failure to respond to a public records request.  The village
recognizes the legal and non-legal consequences of failure to properly respond
to a public records request. In addition to the distrust in government that
failure to comply may cause, the village's failure to comply with a request may
result in a court ordering the village to comply with the law and to pay the
requester's attorney's fees and damages.
   (G)   Village Records Manager.  The Village Records Manager shall be the
Fiscal Officer.
(Res. 23-2007, passed 9-11-07)
§ 36.03  IDENTITY THEFT POLICY.
   (A)   Background. The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, an
amendment to the Fair Credit Reporting Act, requires rules regarding identity
theft protection to be promulgated.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The village adopts this sensitive information policy to help
protect employees, customers, contractors and the village from damages related
to the loss or misuse of sensitive information.  This policy will:
         (a)   Define sensitive information;
         (b)   Describe the physical security of data when it is printed on
paper;
         (c)   Describe the electronic security of data when stored and
distributed; and
         (d)   Place the village in compliance with state and federal law
regarding identity theft protection.
      (2)   This policy enables the village to protect existing customers,
reducing risk from identity fraud, and minimize potential damage to the village
from fraudulent new accounts. The program will help the village:
         (a)   Identify risks that signify potentially fraudulent activity
within new or existing covered accounts;
         (b)   Detect risks when they occur in covered accounts;
         (c)   Respond to risks to determine if fraudulent activity has
occurred and act if fraud has been attempted or committed; and
         (d)   Update the program periodically, including reviewing the
accounts that are covered and the identified risks that are part of the
program.
   (C)   Scope. This policy and protection program applies to employees,
contractors, consultants, temporary workers, and other workers at the village,
including all personnel affiliated with third parties.
   (D)   Policy.
      (1)   (a)   Sensitive Information Policy.
            1.   Definition of sensitive information.  Sensitive information
includes the following items whether stored in electronic or printed format:
               a.   Name, social security number, date of birth, official state
or government issued drivers license or identification number, alien
registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer
identification number;
               b.   Unique biometric data, such as fingerprint, voice print,
retina or iris image, or other unique physical representation;
               c.   Unique electronic identification number, address, or
routing code; or
               d.   Telecommunication identifying information or access device
(as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1029(e)).
         (b)   Village personnel are encouraged to use common sense judgment in
securing confidential information to the proper extent. Furthermore, this
section should be read in conjunction with the Ohio Public Records Law and the
village's open records policy. If an employee is uncertain of the sensitivity
of a particular piece of information, he or she should contact their
supervisor. In the event that the village cannot resolve a conflict between
this policy and the Ohio Public Records Law, the village will contact the
village's legal counsel.
      (2)   Hard copy distribution.  Each employee and contractor performing
work for the village will comply with the following policies:
         (a)   File cabinets, desk drawers, overhead cabinets, and any other
storage space containing documents with sensitive information will be locked
when not in use.
         (b)   Storage rooms containing documents with sensitive information
and record retention areas will be locked at the end of each workday or when
unsupervised.
         (c)   Desks, work stations, work areas, printers and fax machines, and
common shared work areas will be cleared of all documents containing sensitive
information when not in use.
         (d)   Whiteboards, dry-erase boards, writing tablets, and the like in
common shared work areas will be erased, removed, or shredded when not in use.
         (e)   Municipal records, however, may only be destroyed in accordance
with the village's records retention policy.
      (3)   Electronic distribution.  Each employee and contractor performing
work for the village will comply with the following policies:
         (a)   Internally, sensitive information may be transmitted using
approved municipal e-mail. All sensitive information must be encrypted when
stored in an electronic format.
         (b)   Any sensitive information sent externally must be encrypted and
password protected and only to approved recipients. Additionally, a statement
such as this should be included in the email:
      “This message may contain confidential and/or proprietary information and
is intended for the person/entity to whom it was originally addressed. Any use
by others is strictly prohibited.”
   (E)   Additional identity theft prevention program.
      (1)   Covered accounts.  A covered account includes any account that
involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions. Every new
and existing customer account that meets the following criteria is covered by
this program:
         (a)   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft; or
         (b)   Business, personal and household accounts for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to the safety or soundness of the village from
identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance, reputation, or
litigation risks.
      (2)   Red flags.
         (a)   The following red flags are potential indicators of fraud. Any
time a red flag, or a situation closely resembling a red flag, is apparent, it
should be investigated for verification.
            1.   Alerts, notifications or warnings from a consumer reporting
agency;
            2.   A fraud or active duty alert included with a consumer report;
            3.   A notice of credit freeze from a consumer reporting agency in
response to a request for a consumer report; or
            4.   A notice of address discrepancy from a consumer reporting
agency as defined in § 334.82(b) of the Fairness and Accuracy in Credit
Transactions Act.
         (b)   Red flags also include consumer reports that indicate a pattern
of activity inconsistent with the history and usual pattern of activity of an
applicant or customer, such as:
            1.   A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
            2.   An unusual number of recently established credit
relationships;
            3.   A material change in the use of credit, especially with
respect to recently established credit relationships; or
            4.   An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse
of account privileges by a financial institution or creditor.
      (3)   Suspicious documents.
         (a)   Documents provided for identification that appear to have been
altered or forged.
         (b)   The photograph or physical description on the identification is
not consistent with the appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the
identification.
         (c)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
information provided by the person opening a new covered account or customer
presenting the identification.
         (d)   Other information on the identification is not consistent with
readily accessible information that is on file with the Village, such as a
signature card or a recent check.
         (e)   An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives
the appearance of having been destroyed and reassembled.
      (4)   Suspicious personal identifying information.
         (a)   Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when
compared against external information sources used by the village. For example:
            1.   The address does not match any address in the consumer report;
            2.   The Social Security number (SSN) has not been issued or is
listed on the Social Security Administration's Death Master File; or
            3.   Personal identifying information provided by the customer is
not consistent with other personal identifying information provided by the
customer. For example, there is a lack of correlation between the SSN range and
date of birth.
         (b)   Personal identifying information provided is associated with
known fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used
by the village. For example, the address on an application is the same as the
address provided on a fraudulent application.
         (c)   Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly
associated with fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party
sources used by the village. For example:
            1.   The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a
prison; or
            2.   The phone number is invalid or is associated with a pager or
answering service.
         (d)   The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons
opening an account or other customers.
         (e)   The address or telephone number provided is the same as or
similar to the address or telephone number submitted by an unusually large
number of other customers or other persons opening accounts.
         (f)   The customer or the person opening the covered account fails to
provide all required personal identifying information on an application or in
response to notification that the application is incomplete.
         (g)   Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with
personal identifying information that is on file with the village.
         (h)   When using security questions (mother's maiden name, pet's name,
and the like), the person opening the covered account or the customer cannot
provide authenticating information beyond that which generally would be
available from a wallet or consumer report.
      (5)   Unusual use of, or suspicious activity related to, the covered
account.
         (a)   Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a
covered account, the village receives a request for new, additional, or
replacement goods or services, or for the addition of authorized users on the
account.
         (b)   A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly
associated with known patterns of fraud patterns. For example, the customer
fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no subsequent
payments.
         (c)   A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent
with established patterns of activity on the account. There is, for example:
            1.   Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed
payments;
            2.   Severe swings in consumption. For example, 1,000 kwh to 3,000
kwh.
         (d)   A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably
lengthy period of time is used (taking into consideration the type of account,
the expected pattern of usage and other relevant factors).
         (e)   Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as
undeliverable although transactions continue to be conducted in connection with
the customer's covered account.
         (f)   The village is notified that the customer is not receiving paper
account statements.
         (g)   The village is notified of unauthorized charges or transactions
in connection with a customer's covered account.
         (h)   The village receives notice from customers, victims of identity
theft, law enforcement authorities, or other persons regarding possible
identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the village.
         (i)   The village is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a
fraudulent account for a person engaged in identity theft.
   (F)   Responding to red flags.
      (1)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, an employee must
act quickly as a rapid appropriate response can protect customers and the
village from damages and loss.
         (a)   Once potentially fraudulent activity is detected, gather all
related documentation and write a description of the situation. Present this
information to the designated authority for determination.
         (b)   The designated authority will complete additional authentication
to determine whether the attempted transaction was fraudulent or authentic.
      (2)   If a transaction is determined to be fraudulent, appropriate
actions must be taken immediately. Actions may include:
         (a)   Canceling the transaction;
         (b)   Notifying and cooperating with appropriate law enforcement;
         (c)   Determining the extent of liability of the Village; and
         (d)   Notifying the actual customer that fraud has been attempted.
   (G)   Periodic updates to plan.
      (1)   At periodic intervals established in the program, or as required,
the program will be re- evaluated to determine whether all aspects of the
program are up to date and applicable in the current business environment. The
Records Commission shall regularly assess the actual operation of the Identity
Theft Policy and recommend amendments to Council as needed.
      (2)   Periodic reviews will include an assessment of which accounts are
covered by the program.
      (3)   As part of the review, red flags may be revised, replaced or
eliminated.  Defining new red flags may also be appropriate.
      (4)   Actions to take in the event that fraudulent activity is discovered
may also require revision to reduce damage to the village and its customers.
   (H)   Program administration.
      (1)   Involvement of management.
         (a)   The Identity Theft Prevention Program shall not be operated as
an extension to existing fraud prevention programs, and its importance warrants
the highest level of attention.
         (b)   The Identity Theft Prevention Program is the responsibility of
the Village Administrator. Approval of the initial plan must be appropriately
documented and maintained.
         (c)   Operational responsibility of the program is delegated to the
Village Administrator.
         (d)   The Village Administrator shall have the authority to delegate
to and appoint village employees to administer the Identity Theft Policy.
         (e)   The Village Administrator shall provide regular reports to the
Records Commission regarding the administration and enforcement of the Identity
Theft Policy.
      (2)   Staff training.
         (a)   Staff training shall be conducted for all employees, officials
and contractors for whom it is reasonably foreseeable that they may come into
contact with accounts or personally identifiable information that may
constitute a risk to the village or its customers.
         (b)   The Village Administrator is responsible for ensuring identity
theft training for all requisite employees and contractors.
         (c)   Employees must receive regular training in all elements of this
policy.
         (d)   To ensure maximum effectiveness, employees may continue to
receive additional training as changes to the program are made.
      (3)   Oversight of service provider arrangements.
         (a)   It is the responsibility of the village to ensure that the
activities of all service providers are conducted in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of
identity theft.
         (b)   A service provider that maintains its own identity theft
prevention program, consistent with the guidance of the red flag rules and
validated by appropriate due diligence, may be considered to be meeting these
requirements.
         (c)   Any specific requirements should be specifically addressed in
the appropriate contract arrangements.
(Res. 35-2008, passed 10-28-08)
§ 36.04  MAYOR’S WRITTEN APPROVAL FOR CERTAIN EXPENDITURES.
   No village official or employee who is authorized to make any expenditure or
purchase on behalf of the village shall make any expenditure of village funds
exceeding $5,000 without the Mayor’s written signed voucher.  The voucher shall
be filed with the Village Fiscal Officer prior to the expenditure or purchase.
(Res. 26-2017, passed 11-28-17)
§ 36.05  SECURITY PAYMENTS FROM INSURANCE COMPANIES TO SECURE ACTUAL REPAIR,
REMOVAL OR SECURING OF FIRE DAMAGED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Whenever any building or structure located in the village is damaged
or destroyed by fire and a policy or policies of insurance are in force and the
loss agreed to between the insured(s) and insurance company(s) is more than
$5,000 and equals or exceeds 60% of the aggregate limits of liability on all
fire policies covering the building or structure on the property, then the
applicable provisions of R.C. § 3929.86 shall apply and its provisions and
procedures are hereby adopted.
   (B)   The Village Administrator is designated to accept monies transferred
to the village from the insurance company(s) in compliance with R.C. § 3929.86.
   (C)   The Village Administrator upon receipt of proceeds shall deposit them
in a separate fund with the Village Fiscal Officer and such funds shall be used
solely as security against the total cost of removing, repairing or securing
buildings on structures pursuant to the village authority under R.C. § 715.261.
   (D)   The Village Administrator shall certify by written notice to the named
insured(s) that the proceeds have been received and that the following
procedures will be followed: The fund shall be returned to the named insured or
insureds when repairs, removal, or securing of the building or other structure
have been completed and the required proof has been received by the Village
Administrator has not incurred any costs for the repairs, removal, or securing.
However, the fund shall be returned to the named insured or insureds no later
than 60 days after the Village Administrator receives the required proof. If
the Village has incurred any costs for repairs, removal, or securing of the
building or other structure, the costs shall be paid from the fund, and if
excess funds remain, the village shall transfer, no later than 60 days after
all such costs have been paid, the remaining funds to the named insured or
insureds. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the ability of
the village to recover any deficiency or R.C. § 715.261.
(Res. 26-2019, passed 11-12-19)
§ 36.06  CREDIT CARD USAGE POLICY.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   The name "Village of Plymouth" will appear on the credit card.
      (2)   Credit cards, defined as not only bankcards, but merchant cards,
grocery cards, gas cards, or any card other than a bankcard, are designed to
make authorized expenditures in a manner that reduces paperwork and processing
time. Use of a credit card is a privilege that the Village of Plymouth may
withdraw at any time, with or without cause. Internal accounting controls and
specific finance and accounting procedures for the use of the credit cards are
set forth below.
      (3)   Credit cards can be used for in-store purchases as well as mail, e-
mail, internet, telephone and fax orders. It is expressly understood that it is
not an ATM (automated teller machine) card or a debit card and is not
authorized to be used for personal or non-village expenditures. Expenditures
are restricted to municipal or public purposes related to the work of the
cardholder or department where he or she is employed.
      (4)   It is to be understood that the cardholder is responsible for the
security and physical custody of the card, and is accountable for all
transactions made with the card. The cardholder is also responsible for
ensuring that unauthorized personnel do not use the card. Cardholders cannot
lend the card to anyone else. Card numbers may not be distributed and should
not be saved in on-line accounts. The cardholder must comply with the village's
recordkeeping requirements (including retention of original receipts) for the
protection of both the cardholder and the village.
   (B)   Procedures for usage of credit cards.
      (1)   For usage of the bank credit card:
         (a)   All expenditures must be work-related. Personal use may result
in criminal prosecution.
         (b)   A purchase order must be in place prior to using the credit
card.
         (c)   The bank credit card is locked in a safe location in the Finance
Department.
         (d)   Purchaser must personally sign-out the credit card. They must
include their name and vendor name. Following the purchase, the credit card has
to be returned within five business days.
         (e)   The receipt should be provided to the purchaser's department
head, in the event the authorized user is not the department head, as soon as
possible for review, approval and notation of purchase order number. The
receipt should then be submitted to the Finance Department for filing until the
credit card statement is received.
         (f)   Once the statement has been received, the approved receipts will
be attached to the statement and proof of payment.
      (2)   For usage of a merchant card, grocery card, gas card, or any card
other than the bank credit card:
         (a)   All expenditures must be work related. Personal use may result
in criminal prosecution.
         (b)   A purchase order must be in place prior to using the card.
         (c)   It is understood by each individual cardholder that it is their
responsibility to obtain transaction receipts from the merchant or supplier
each time the card is used.
         (d)   The receipt should be provided to the purchaser's department
head, in the event the authorized user is not the department head, as soon as
possible for review, approval and notation of purchase order number. The
receipt should then be submitted to the Finance Department for filing until the
credit card statement is received.
         (e)   Once the statement has been received, the approved receipts will
be attached to the statement and proof of payment.
   (C)   Authorized individuals to use credit cards. The Mayor will determine
which employees will be issued credit cards then have the Fiscal Officer get a
credit card issued for the employee. The Mayor and all department heads are
authorized to use a credit card. The Mayor may designate other employees or the
Fiscal Officer as authorized to use a credit card under any restrictions deemed
appropriate.
   (D)   Authorized uses. Credit cards may be used for expenses incurred while
performing village business. The following are examples of acceptable uses:
      (1)   Purchase of office supplies or other supplies needed to properly
perform village business.
      (2)   Gasoline and repairs to village owned vehicles.
      (3)   Business meals and entertainment in connection with performing
village business. Reasonable gratuities are acceptable.
      (4)   Travel expenses incurred for meetings or training. Expenses include
overnight accommodations, parking, meals, or any other costs related to the
meeting or training.
      (5)   Parks and recreation programs and events.
   (E)   Unauthorized uses.
      (1)   Use of a village credit card for personal expenses is strictly
prohibited.
      (2)   In addition, the village credit card may not be used for any
strictly prohibited expenses including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Purchase of alcohol.
         (b)   Related party transactions.
         (c)   Cash advances and all other cash-related transactions.
         (d)   Any service or product that requires a contract.
         (e)   Purchases prohibited by village policy or not related to village
business.
         (f)   Donations to charitable organizations.
         (g)   Payments to individuals and employees.
         (h)   Any illicit merchandise or services.
      (3)   Employees agree to surrender and cease use of any credit card in
their possession upon termination of employment, whether for retirement,
voluntary suspension, resignation or dismissal. Employees may also be asked to
surrender the credit card at any time.
      (4)   Misuse or fraudulent use of the credit card will result in
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
      (5)   An officer, employee or public servant who knowingly misuses a
credit card account commits a crime of misuse of credit cards and is subject to
prosecution under R.C. § 2913.21.
   (F)   Maximum credit limits. Credit card transactions are subject to the
credit/spending limitations in the amount of $2,000. Purchases exceeding these
limits are permitted only if authorized by the Mayor or Fiscal Officer.
   (G)   Required documentation.
      (1)   Credit card receipts for purchases made with a village credit card
must be submitted to your Fiscal Officer as soon as possible. The receipt must
include the date of the purchase, a description of the item/service purchased
and the amount or be stapled to an invoice supplied by the vendor. The business
purpose of the charge must also be written on the receipt or invoice.
      (2)   If the credit card is used for meals and/or entertainment, the
following must be included with the receipt:
         (a)   Date of the purchase.
         (b)   Amount of the purchase.
         (c)   Individuals present at the meal/entertainment.
         (d)   Business purpose of the meal/entertainment.
      (3)   Reasonable gratuities are acceptable.
   (H)   Monitoring usage.
      (1)   When a credit card statement is received, the Fiscal Officer will
match the credit card receipts turned in by the card users to the statement.
The required documentation will be reviewed to insure completeness. Any credit
card charge that is shown on the statement that cannot be matched with
appropriate documentation will be investigated. If appropriate documentation
cannot be acquired from the employee that made the charge, the charge amount
may be deducted from the employee's next paycheck. Credit card transactions and
detail shall be reviewed in accordance with Ohio law.
      (2)   After the credit card statement is reviewed by the Fiscal Officer,
all charges are verified by the Fiscal Officer a report will be made out and
given to a member of the Finance Committee of the village to verify and sign on
a monthly basis.
   (I)   Monthly review. The Fiscal Officer and a Council Member shall review
the number of credit cards, the amount spent on each credit card for that month
then the Council member and Fiscal Officer will sign off on a credit card
voucher report monthly with a copy of the credit card statement attached.
   (J)   Lost/stolen cards. If a card is lost or stolen, contact the Fiscal
Officer as soon as possible to report the status of the card. The Fiscal
Officer will report to the bank the credit card is lost/stolen, instruct to
close the account, and request for a new credit card to be issued.
   (K)   Cards to be returned. Upon an employee's termination of employment
with the village, all cards must be returned to the Fiscal Officer. The Fiscal
Officer will call the bank to have the credit card account closed.
(Ord. 1-2019, passed 1-22-19)
CHAPTER 37:  MUNICIPAL INCOME TAX EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2016
Section
   
37.01   Authority to levy tax; purposes of tax; rate
   
37.011   Authority to levy tax
   
37.012   Purposes of tax; rate
   
37.013   Allocation of funds
   
37.014   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax
   
37.02   Effective date
   
37.03   Definitions
   
37.04   Income subject to tax for individuals
   
37.041   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals
   
37.042   Domicile
   
37.043   Exemption for member or employee of General Assembly and certain
judges
   
37.05   Collection at source
   
37.051   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages
   
37.052   Collection at source; occasional entrant
   
37.053   Collection at source; casino and VLT
   
37.06   Income subject to net profit tax
   
37.061   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals
   
37.062   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment
   
37.063   Consolidated federal income tax return
   
37.064   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in Ohio
   
37.065   Tax credits to foster job retention
   
37.07   Declaration of estimated tax
   
37.08   Credit for tax paid
   
37.081   Credit for tax paid to another municipality
   
37.082   Refundable credit for qualifying loss
   
37.083   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone
   
37.084   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund
   
37.09   Annual return
   
37.091   Return and payment of tax
   
37.092   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone
   
37.093   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized
   
37.094   Extension of time to file
   
37.095   Amended returns
   
37.096   Refunds
   
37.10   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
   
37.11   Audit
   
37.12   Rounding
   
37.13   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator
   
37.131   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator
   
37.132   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time
   
37.133   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine
   
37.134   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information
   
37.14   Confidentiality
   
37.15   Fraud
   
37.16   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
37.17   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
37.18   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
37.19   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
37.20   Adoption of rules
   
37.21   Local regulations
   
37.211   Duties of owners of rental or leased property
 
   
37.97   Collection of tax after termination of chapter
   
37.98   Savings clause
   
37.99   Violations; penalty
37.01  AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE
§ 37.011  AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX.
   (A)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this chapter
are authorized by Article XVIII, Section 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax on
income and the withholding tax established by this chapter are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is deemed to incorporate the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
   (B)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person residing
in or earning or receiving income in the municipal corporation, and shall be
measured by municipal taxable income. The municipality shall tax income at a
uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable income, as defined herein.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax income and withhold tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 37.012  PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   To provide funds for the purposes of general municipal operations,
maintenance, new equipment, extension and enlargement of municipal services and
facilities and capital improvements of this municipality there shall be, and is
hereby levied a tax on salaries, wages, commissions and other compensation, and
on net profits as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Tax rate at 1%.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
§ 37.013  ALLOCATION OF FUNDS.
   The funds collected under this chapter shall be deposited in the General
Fund and such moneys collected or on deposit from and after January 1, shall be
disbursed in the following order:
   (A)   For the village General Fund 100%.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
§ 37.014  STATEMENT OF PROCEDURAL HISTORY; STATE MANDATED CHANGES TO MUNICIPAL
INCOME TAX.
   (A)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by Am. Sub. H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by
Governor Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal
corporations to conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in
order to have the authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a
municipal income tax.
   (B)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax Ordinance 18-2015,
effective January 1, 2016, comprehensively amends the village's income tax
ordinance which is now designated by Chapter 37 of the Plymouth Codified
Ordinance, but still retaining Chapter 35 of the Plymouth Codified Ordinance
for all other village income tax prior to January 1, 2016, in accordance with
the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the municipality to continue the
income tax and withholding tax administration and collection efforts on behalf
of the municipality.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
§ 37.02  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Ordinance 18-2015, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding
changes to R.C. Chapter 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or
after January 1, 2016. All provisions of this chapter apply to taxable years
beginning 2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   Ordinance 18-2015 does not repeal the existing sections of
Chapter 35 for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends
Chapter 35 effective January 1, 2016. For municipal taxable years beginning
before January 1, 2016, the municipality shall continue to administer, audit,
and enforce the income tax of the municipality under R.C. Chapter 718 and
ordinances and resolutions of the municipality as that chapter and those
ordinances and resolutions existed before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 37.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the singular shall include the plural,
and the masculine shall include the feminine and the gender-neutral.
   (C)   As used in this chapter:
      (1)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME, for a person required to file as a
C corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under division (C)(23)(d) of this section, means a C corporation's federal
taxable income before net operating losses and special deductions as determined
under the Internal Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income.
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
division (C)(1)(a) of this section, but excluding that portion of intangible
income directly related to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of property
described in section 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange, or
other disposition of an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(d)2. of this section,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange, or other disposition of
an asset described in section 1221 or 1231 of the Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Division (C)(1)(d)1. of this section does not apply to the
extent the income or gain is income or gain described in section 1245 or 1250
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income.
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to, or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and
allowed as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income.
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02.
         (h)   1.   Except as limited by divisions (C)(1)(h)2., 3. and 4. of
this section, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a taxable
year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
               The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted from net
profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to reduce
municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of the net
operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive taxable years
following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in no case for
more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (C)(1)
(h) of this section to offset qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021, or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (C)(1)
(h)1. of this section.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (C)(1)(h)1. of this section.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (C)(1)(h) of this section.
            5.   Nothing in division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section. To
the extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in
one or more taxable years by operation of division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this
section is carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable
year beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021, or 2022, the limitation described in
division (C)(1)(h)3.a. of this section shall apply to the amount carried
forward.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.063(E)(3)(b).
         (j)   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer's federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in the
group's federal taxable income in accordance with §
37.063(E)(3)(b).
          If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded entity
that has made the election described in division (C)(47)(b) of this section, is
not a publicly traded partnership that has made the election described in
division (C)(23)(d) of this section, and is not an individual, the taxpayer
shall compute adjusted federal taxable income under this section as if the
taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed payments and other similar
amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former partner, shareholder, former
shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed as a deductible
expense unless such payments are in consideration for the use of capital and
treated as payment of interest under section 469 of the Internal Revenue Code
or United States Treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified
self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member, or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction. Nothing in division (C)(1) of this section shall be construed
as allowing the taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be
construed as allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for
purposes of federal self-employment tax.
      (2)   (a)   ASSESSMENT.
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty, or interest, to the municipal corporation;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
37.096(B)(2);
            3.   A Tax Administrator's denial of a taxpayer's request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.062(B)(2); or
            4.   A Tax Administrator's requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method, issued under §
37.062(B)(3).
            5.   For purposes of division (C)(2)(a)1., 2., 3. and 4. of this
section, an assessment shall commence the person's time limitation for making
an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
37.18, and shall have "ASSESSMENT" written in all capital letters at the top of
such finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
37.096 (B)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator's request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator's other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (C)(2)(a) of this
section.
      (3)   AUDIT.  The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda, or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      (4)   BOARD OF REVIEW.  Has same meaning as LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
      (5)   CALENDAR QUARTER.  The three-month period ending on the last day of
March, June, September, or December.
      (6)   CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY.  Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 3772.01.
      (7)   CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL, POSTAL SERVICE,
and similar terms include any delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. §
5703.056.
      (8)   COMPENSATION.  Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for
personal services.
      (9)   DISREGARDED ENTITY.  A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary, or another entity if the company,
subsidiary, or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      (10)   DOMICILE.  The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to
which, whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (11)   EXEMPT INCOME.
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the armed forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
national guard of any state;
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(11)(b)2. of this
section, intangible income;
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to Section 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th
General Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the
electors of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to
permit the taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor
thereof at an election held on November 8, 1988.
         (c)   Social security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities, and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state, or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident,
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (C)(11)(c) of this
section, UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary, or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities.
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. § 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation.
         (f)   Dues, contributions, and similar payments received by
charitable, religious, educational, or literary organizations or labor unions,
lodges, and similar organizations.
         (g)   Alimony and child support received.
         (h)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages.
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. § 5727.24 or 5727.30.  Division (C)(11)(i) of this
section does not apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745.
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent's estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business.
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under section 107 of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
division (C)(34) of this section.
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for Air Force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile.
         (n)   An S corporation shareholder's distributive share of net profits
of the S corporation, other than any part of the distributive share of net
profits that represents wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code or net earnings from self-employment as defined in section 1402(a)
of the Internal Revenue Code.
         (o)   All of the municipal taxable income earned by individuals under
18 years of age.
         (p)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (C)(11)(p)2., 3., and 4. of
this section, qualifying wages described in §
37.052(B)(1) or (E) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(p)1. of this
section does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the
employee resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold
under §
37.052(D)(2).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(p)1. of this
section does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions
apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
37.052(B)(1), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
37.052(E), the employee's employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer's fixed location is
located;
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (C)(11)(p)4.a. of this section on the basis of the employee not
performing services in that municipal corporation.
         (q)   1.   Except as provided in division (C)(11)(q)2. or 3. of this
section, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a nonresident
individual for personal services performed in the municipality on not more than
20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (C)(11)(q)1. of this
section does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual's base of operation is located in the
municipality.
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure. For purposes of division (C)(11)
(q)2.b. of this section, "professional athlete," "professional entertainer,"
and "public figure" have the same meanings as in §
37.052.
            3.   Compensation to which division (C)(11)(q) of this section
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual's base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled.
            4.   For purposes of division (C)(11)(q) of this section, BASE OF
OPERATION means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront, or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and
at which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (r)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence.
         (s)   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the Constitution
or laws of the United States.
         Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through entity
under division (C)(11) of this section is exempt income of each owner of the
pass-through entity to the extent of that owner's distributive or proportionate
share of that item of the entity's income.
      (12)   FORM 2106.  Internal Revenue Service form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (13)   GENERIC FORM.  An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed
by a particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes, or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
      (14)   INCOME.
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident's distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in division (C)(23)(d) of this
section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (C)(14)(a)1. of this section:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident's distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident's ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident's distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident's ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (C)(14)(a)4. of this section;
               b.   The resident's distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity's net
profit for the current taxable year.
            3.   Division (C)(14)(a)2. of this section does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders' distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as
provided in division (C)(11)(n) or division (C)(14)(e) of this section.
            4.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a taxpayer's
net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net operating loss
that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by that taxpayer. In
no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable years with respect to
a taxpayer's net operating loss exceed the original amount of that net
operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of nonresidents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions, and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the nonresident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the
nonresident, but excluding the nonresident's distributive share of the net
profit or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by
the nonresident.
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer.
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
37.081.
         (e)   Intentionally left blank
      (15)   INTANGIBLE INCOME.  Income of any of the following types: income
yield, interest, capital gains, dividends, or other income arising from the
ownership, sale, exchange, or other disposition of intangible property
including, but not limited to, investments, deposits, money, or credits as
those terms are defined in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights,
trademarks, trade names, investments in real estate investment trusts,
investments in regulated investment companies, and appreciation on deferred
compensation.  INTANGIBLE INCOME does not include prizes, awards, or other
income associated with any lottery winnings, gambling winnings, or other
similar games of chance.
      (16)   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE.  The "Internal Revenue Code of 1986," 100
Sta. 2085, 26 U.S.C.A. 1, as amended.
      (17)   LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY.  A limited liability company formed
under R.C. Chapter 1705 or under the laws of another state.
      (18)   LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.  The entity
created under §
37.18.
      (19)   MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.  In general terms, a status conferred upon
a local government unit, by state law giving the unit certain autonomous
operating authority such as the power of taxation, power of eminent domain,
police power and regulatory power, and includes a joint economic development
district or joint economic development zone that levies an income tax under
R.C. § 715.691, 715.70, 715.71, or 715.74.
      (20)   (a)   MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
            1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
37.062, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality.
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (C)(20)(b) of this section, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the municipality.
               b.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation's tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
            3.   For an individual who is a nonresident of the municipality,
income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and
then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
37.062, then reduced as provided in division (C)(20)(b) of this section, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the municipality.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (C)(20)
(a)2.a. or 3. of this section, the amount of the individual's employee business
expenses reported on the individual's form 2106 that the individual deducted
for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by section 67 of the Internal Revenue Code. For the municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all
such expenses allowed for federal income tax purposes. For a municipal
corporation in which the taxpayer is not a resident, the taxpayer may deduct
such expenses only to the extent the expenses are related to the taxpayer's
performance of personal services in that nonresident municipal corporation.
      (21)   MUNICIPALITY.  The Village of Plymouth.
      (22)   NET OPERATING LOSS.  A loss incurred by a person in the operation
of a trade or business.  NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations, or passive activity loss
limitations.
      (23)   (a)   NET PROFIT.  For a person other than an individual means
adjusted federal taxable income.
         (b)   NET PROFIT.  For a person who is an individual means the
individual's net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E, or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of division the net operating loss carried forward shall be calculated and
deducted in the same manner as provided in division (C)(1)(h) of this section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(C)(23)(a) of this section, net profit of a disregarded entity shall not be
taxable as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in
the net profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (d)   1.   For purposes of this chapter, PUBLICLY TRADED PARTNERSHIP
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A "publicly traded partnership" may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, and not withstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the net profit of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in division (C)(23)(d) of this
section shall be taxed as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall
not be treated as the net profit or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its net profits. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election.  The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (C)(23)(d)4. of this section.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (C)(23)(d)3. of this section. The election to
discontinue filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period
beginning with the first taxable year of the election and continues to be
binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal
purposes. An election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in
the first year following the last year of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (C)(23)(d) of this section
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      (24)   NONRESIDENT.  An individual that is not a resident of the
municipality.
      (25)   OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY.  The online computer network system,
created under R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file
business reply forms with state agencies and includes any successor electronic
filing and payment system.
      (26)   OTHER PAYER.  Any person, other than an individual's employer or
the employer's agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the
federal gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators
and video lottery terminal sales agents.
      (27)   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY.  A partnership not treated as an association
taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability
company not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal
income tax purposes, an S corporation, or any other class of entity from which
the income or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for
federal income tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust,
estate, grantor of a grantor trust, or disregarded entity.
      (28)   PENSION.  Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that
is reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, Wage and Tax Statement, or successor form.
      (29)   PERSON.  Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock
companies, business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability
partnerships, limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S
corporations, governmental entities, and any other entity.
      (30)   POSTAL SERVICE.  The United States postal service, or private
delivery service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon
delivery schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      (31)   POSTMARK DATE, DATE OF POSTMARK, and similar terms include the
date recorded and marked by a delivery service and recorded electronically to a
database kept in the regular course of its business and marked on the cover in
which the payment or document is enclosed, the date on which the payment or
document was given to the delivery service for delivery.
      (32)   (a)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD.  Any net operating
loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before January 1, 2017, to the extent
such loss was permitted, by a resolution or ordinance of the municipality that
was adopted by the municipality before January 1, 2016, to be carried forward
and utilized to offset income or net profit generated in such municipality in
future taxable years.
         (b)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any
pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      (33)   QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION.  A municipal corporation that, by
resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted Ohio
adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to
tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
      (34)   QUALIFYING WAGES.  Wages, as defined in section 3121(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code, without regard to any wage limitations, adjusted as
follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code.
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
on account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer.
            3.   Any amount attributable to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan or program described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal
Revenue Code if the compensation is included in wages.
            4.   Any amount included in wages if the amount arises from the
sale, exchange, or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a stock
option, or the sale, exchange, or other disposition of stock purchased under a
stock option.
            5.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986.
            2.   Intentionally left blank.
            3.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in section 401(k), 403(b), or 457 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Division (C)(34)(b)3. of this section applies only to employee contributions
and employee deferrals.
            4.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in section 3402(o)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code and not
included in wages.
            5.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with section 1402(a)(8) of the Internal
Revenue Code.
            6.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer's gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer's gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year did the amount constitute
wages as defined in section 3121(a) of the Internal Revenue Code;
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (C)(34)(b) of this section or R.C. §
718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the
130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      (35)   RELATED ENTITY.
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder's
family enumerated in section 318 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the
stockholder and the members of the stockholder's family own directly,
indirectly, beneficially, or constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of
the value of the taxpayer's outstanding stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder's partnership, estate, trust, or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder's partnerships, estates,
trusts, or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer's
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (C)(35)(d) of this section,
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially, or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation's outstanding
stock;
         (d)   The attribution rules described in section 318 of the Internal
Revenue Code apply for the purpose of determining whether the ownership
requirements in divisions (C)(35)(a) to (c) of this section have been met.
      (36)   RELATED MEMBER.  A person that, with respect to the taxpayer
during all or any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a
component member as defined in section 1563(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, or
a person to or from whom there is attribution of stock ownership in accordance
with section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code except, for purposes of
determining whether a person is a related member under this division, "twenty
per cent" shall be substituted for "5 percent" wherever "5 percent" appears in
section 1563(e) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (37)   RESIDENT.  An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as
determined under §
37.042.
      (38)   S CORPORATION.  A person that has made an election under
subchapter S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A of the Internal Revenue Code for its
taxable year.
      (39)   SCHEDULE C.  Internal Revenue Service schedule C (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (40)   SCHEDULE E.  Internal Revenue Service schedule E (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (41)   SCHEDULE F.  Internal Revenue Service schedule F (form 1040) filed
by a taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      (42)   SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY.  A limited liability
company that has one direct member.
      (43)   SMALL EMPLOYER.  Any employer that had total revenue of less than
$500,000 during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division,
TOTAL REVENUE means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited
to, sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends, and other
investment income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants;
contributions; donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service
revenue; premiums; fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition
payments; unrelated business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from
a governmental unit, including grants and other allocations; and any other
similar receipts reported for federal income tax purposes or under generally
accepted accounting principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal
government; any state government, including any state agency or
instrumentality; any political subdivision; or any entity treated as a
government for financial accounting and reporting purposes.
      (44)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR.  The individual charged with direct
responsibility for administration of an income tax levied by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes the following:
         (a)   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another municipal
corporation;
         (b)   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a tax
levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation does
not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis;
         (c)   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
      (45)   TAX RETURN PREPARER.  Any individual described in section 7701(a)
(36) of the Internal Revenue Code and 26 C.F.R. 301.7701-15.
      (46)   TAXABLE YEAR.  The corresponding tax reporting period as
prescribed for the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      (47)   (a)   TAXPAYER.  A person subject to a tax levied on income by a
municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not
include a grantor trust or, except as provided in division (C)(47)(b)1. of this
section, a disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all Ohio municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company's single member is also a
limited liability company.
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more Ohio municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004.
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
company and its single member each made an election to be treated as a separate
taxpayer under division (L) of R.C. § 718.01 as this section existed on
December 31, 2004.
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing Ohio municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member.
               e.   The Ohio municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (C)(47)(b)1.e. of this section, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company's taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in Ohio, and that tax liability to that municipal
corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least $400,000.
      (48)   TAXPAYERS' RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.  The rights provided to
taxpayers in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38,
5717.011, and 5717.03 and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and
the responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit, and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Chapter 718 and
resolutions, ordinances, and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the
imposition and administration of a municipal income tax.
      (49)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
3770.21.
      (50)   VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT.  A lottery sales agent
licensed under R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf
of the state pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
37.04  INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS
§ 37.041  DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense
deduction as found in §
37.03(C)(20)(b), further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   Income is defined in §
37.03(C)(14).
            1.   Qualifying wages is defined in §
37.03(C)(34).
            2.   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
37.03(C)(23).  This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
37.03(C)(1)(h).  Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer
from rental real estate is provided in §
37.062(E).
            3.   Section 37.03(C)(14) provides the following: offsetting and
net operating loss carryforward treatment in §
37.03(C)(14)(a)2.a.; resident's distributive share of net profit from pass
through entity treatment in §
37.03(C)(14)(a)2.b.; treatment of S corporation distributive share of net
profit in the hands of the shareholder in §
37.03(C)(14)(a)3.; restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried
forward for use by taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year in §
37.03(C)(14)(a)4.
            4.   Pass through entity is defined in §
37.03(C)(27).
         (b)   Exempt income is defined in §
37.03(C)(11).
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in §
37.03(C)(20)(b), and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         (d)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
37.03(C)(32).
   (B)   Municipal taxable income for a nonresident of the municipality is
calculated as follows:
      (1)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is
otherwise included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the
municipality as provided in §
37.062, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in §
37.03(C)(20)(b), further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss
carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
         (a)   Income is defined in §
37.03(C)(14).
            1.   Qualifying wages is defined in §
37.03(C)(34).
            2.   Net profit is included in income, and is defined in §
37.03(C)(23).  This section also provides that the net operating loss
carryforward shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in
§
37.03(C)(1)(h).  Net profit for a nonresident individual includes any net
profit of the nonresident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or
loss of only pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the
nonresident.
            3.   Pass through entity is defined in §
37.03(C)(27).
         (b)   Exempt income is defined in §
37.03(C)(11).
         (c)   Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
37.062 includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment of net profits
received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
37.062(E).
         (d)   Allowable employee business expense deduction as described in §
37.03(C)(20)(b), is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a
nonresident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the nonresident
in the municipality.
         (e)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
37.03(C)(32).
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
§ 37.042  DOMICILE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer
to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      (2)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality for
all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the Tax Administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (3)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (A)(1) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The individual's domicile in other taxable years;
      (2)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
      (3)   The address on the individual's driver's license;
      (4)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual's
residence or domicile;
      (5)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the individual;
      (6)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding the
individual's residency;
      (7)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
      (8)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual's dependents as defined in section 152 of the Internal Revenue Code,
to the extent that tuition paid to such educational institution is based on the
residency of the individual or the individual's spouse in the municipal
corporation or state where the educational institution is located;
      (9)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one contact
period with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual's abode located outside of the municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section, the state's
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
   (C)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Domicile, see R.C. § 718.012
§ 37.043  EXEMPTION FOR MEMBER OR EMPLOYEE OF GENERAL ASSEMBLY AND CERTAIN
JUDGES.
   (A)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to levy
a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General Assembly,
including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a result of
services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from appropriated
funds of this state.
   (B)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of Columbus
shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a justice of the Supreme
Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief Justice or
justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a tax on the
income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on the income
of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations within the
district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Exclusion of General Assembly employee or member and certain judges from
tax, see R.C. § 718.50
37.05  COLLECTION AT SOURCE
§ 37.051  COLLECTION AT SOURCE; WITHHOLDING FROM QUALIFYING WAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality's income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under §
37.052 or division (D) or (F) of this section. An employer, agent of an
employer, or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying
wages on the date that the employer, agent, or other payer directly,
indirectly, or constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the
qualifying wages to the benefit of, the employee.
      (2)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division (A)
(1) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may also
deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the municipal
corporation in which the employee is a resident.
   (B)   (1)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall remit to
the Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes
deducted and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld
by the employer, agent, or other payer, along with any report required by the
Tax Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following
schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer not required
to make payments under division (B)(1)(b) or (B)(1)(c) of this section of taxes
required to be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax
Administrator not later than the last day of the month following the last day
of each calendar quarter.
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent, or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payment under division (B)(1)(b) of
this section shall be made to the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days
after the last day of each month.
         (c)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
semimonthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld
or required to be deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in the
preceding calendar year exceeded $11,999, or if the total amount of taxes
deducted and withheld or required to be deducted and withheld on behalf of the
municipality in any month of the preceding calendar year exceeded $1,000. The
payment under division (B)(1)(c) of this section shall be made to the Tax
Administrator not later than one of the following:
            1.   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld during the first 15 days of a month, the third banking
day after the fifteenth day of that month;
            2.   If the taxes were deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld after the fifteenth day of a month and before the first
day of the immediately following month, the third banking day after the last
day of that month.
         (d)   Intentionally left blank
   (C)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer shall make and file
a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent, or other
payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent, or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee's employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
37.091.
   (D)   An employer, agent of an employer, or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual's disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation's
successor entity.
   (E)   (1)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer's, agent's, or other
payer's exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
      (2)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer to
remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from liability
for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent, or other
payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
   (F)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
   (G)   Each employer, agent of an employer, or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
   (H)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer shall
file a Withholding Reconciliation Return with the Tax Administrator listing the
names, addresses, and social security numbers of all employees from whose
qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee's qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee,
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
   (I)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer does not
discharge the officer's or employee's liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer, or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
   (J)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income tax on
tips and gratuities received by the employer's employees and constituting
qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities are under the
employer's control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or gratuity is
under the employer's control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the customer to
the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the customer pays
the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card, or other electronic means.
   (K)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer at
the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15; Am. Ord. 19-2016, passed 9-13-16)  Penalty, see
§
37.99
Statutory reference:
   Withholding from qualifying wages, see R.C. § 718.03
§ 37.052  COLLECTION AT SOURCE; OCCASIONAL ENTRANT.
   (A)   The following terms as used in this section:
      (1)   EMPLOYER includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
      (2)   PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE means an athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
      (3)   PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER means a person who performs services in
the professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
      (4)   PUBLIC FIGURE means a person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances, or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
      (5)   FIXED LOCATION means a permanent place of doing business in this
state, such as an office, warehouse, storefront, or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
      (6)   WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20
days during the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of
an employee.
      (7)   PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the fixed location to which an
employee is required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary
basis. If the employee is not required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means
the worksite location in this state to which the employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location or worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location
in this state at which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a
calendar year performing services for or on behalf of the employee's employer.
         If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the employee
spent the greatest number of days in a calendar year performing services for or
on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more municipal
corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days that is
greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other municipal
corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee's qualifying wages
subject to division (B)(1)(a) of this section among those two or more municipal
corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair and reasonable
method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among such municipal
corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales made by the
employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal corporation to which
qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall be the employee's
principal place of work with respect to those qualifying wages for the purposes
of this section.
         For the purposes of this division, the location at which an employee
spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division (B)(2) of
this section, except that "location" shall be substituted for "municipal
corporation" wherever "municipal corporation" appears in that division.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to divisions (C), (E), (F), and (G) of this section, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages
paid to an employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal
corporation that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in
the municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of
the following conditions applies:
         (a)   The employee's principal place of work is located in the
municipality.
         (b)   The employee performed services at one or more presumed worksite
locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division, PRESUMED
WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary worksite in this
state at which the employer provides services that can reasonably be expected
by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar year. Services can
reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days if either of
the following applies at the time the services commence:
            1.   The nature of the services are such that it will require more
than 20 days of actual services to complete the services;
            2.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to perform
services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services at the
location for more than 20 days.
         (c)   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has requested
that the employer withhold tax from the employee's qualifying wages as provided
in §
37.051.
         (d)   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer, or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee's capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer, or public figure within the municipality.
      (2)   For the purposes of division (B)(1) of this section, an employee
shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a municipal
corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services for or on
behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any other
municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the amount
of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent performing
one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have been spent
at the employee's principal place of work:
         (a)   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
         (b)   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
         (c)   Traveling from any location to another location in order to pick
up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that has
been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished, processed,
remanufactured, or improved by the employee's employer;
         (d)   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)(2)
(c) of this section, provided that, upon delivery of the property, the employee
does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate owned,
used, or controlled by a person other than the employee's employer;
         (e)   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee's final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee's
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
   (C)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(1) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee's
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee's principal place of work is located.
   (D)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, if,
during a calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing
personal services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold
described in division (B)(1) of this section, the employer shall withhold and
remit tax to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that
calendar year on which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for
personal services performed in that municipal corporation.
      (2)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (D)(1) of this section may elect to withhold tax for
that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
      (3)   If an employer makes the election described in division (D)(2) of
this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during those
first 20 days to the municipal corporation in which the employee's principal
place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
   (E)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee's qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer's fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
37.03.  To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer's federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
   (F)   Divisions (B)(1) and (D) of this section shall not apply to the extent
that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement regarding the
manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements of §
37.051.
   (G)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a petroleum
refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the qualifying
wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12 or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the employer is
located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax
applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on those
days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax
on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this division,
a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard industrial classification
code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining.
      Notwithstanding division (D) of this section, if, during a calendar year,
the number of days an individual performs personal services at a petroleum
refinery exceeds 12, the employer shall withhold tax for the municipal
corporation for the first 12 days for which the employer paid qualifying wages
to the individual and for all subsequent days in the calendar year on which the
individual performed services at the refinery.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Occasional entrant, personal services; withholding, see R.C. § 718.011
§ 37.053  COLLECTION AT SOURCE; CASINO AND VLT.
   (A)   The municipality shall require a casino facility or a casino operator,
as defined in Section 6(C)(9) of Article XV, Ohio Constitution, and R.C. §
3772.01, respectively, or a lottery sales agent conducting video lottery
terminals sales on behalf of the state to withhold and remit municipal income
tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying wages as provided in this
section.
   (B)   If a person's winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by section
6041 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct
and withhold municipal income tax from the person's winnings at the rate of the
tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is
located.
   (C)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in trust
for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator shall
file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipality,
providing the name, address, and social security number of the person from
whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of each such
deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the amount of
the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of casino
gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information required by
the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall remit
electronically to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld during the
preceding month.
      (2)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator
of the municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located,
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The casino operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any
amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If
the name, address, or social security number of a person or the amount deducted
and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for
that reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual
return.
      (3)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a casino
operator shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom
an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year.
The information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax
deducted from the person's winnings during the preceding year. The casino
operator shall provide to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information
return issued under this division. The administrator may require that such
copies be transmitted electronically.
      (4)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the amounts
deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount withheld and
not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and interest
imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax deducted and
withheld.
      (5)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise quits
the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties
and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor shall
withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
         (b)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
            If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
      (6)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
   (D)   If a person's prize award from a video lottery terminal is an amount
for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by section 6041
of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall
deduct and withhold municipal income tax from the person's prize award at the
rate of the tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery
terminal facility is located.
   (E)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are held
in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
      (1)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person's name, address, and social security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
      (2)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery sales
agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality providing the names, addresses, and social security numbers of the
persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount
of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld, and any
other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return, the video
lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax Administrator all
amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
      (3)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all receipts
issued under division (E) of this section and shall make those records
available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
      (4)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, each video
lottery terminal sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with
the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is
located indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with
the annual return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not
previously remitted. If the name, address, or social security number of a
person or the amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was
omitted on a monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall
be indicated on the annual return.
      (5)   Annually, on or before the thirty-first day of January, a video
lottery sales agent shall issue an information return to each person with
respect to whom an amount has been deducted and withheld during the preceding
calendar year. The information return shall show the total amount of municipal
income tax deducted and withheld from the person's prize award by the video
lottery sales agent during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent
shall provide to the Tax Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of
each information return issued under this division. The Tax Administrator may
require that such copies be transmitted electronically.
      (6)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
   (F)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
      (1)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid;
      (2)   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no amounts
are due.
         If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the successor is
personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and withheld and
penalties and interest thereon.
   (G)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person's prize award does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
   (H)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late, fails
to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late, or fails to remit
amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
      (1)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted and
withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld;
      (2)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or annual
return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late. Interest
shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate prescribed
in R.C. § 5703.47.
   (I)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
37.07.  This division applies only to the person for whom the amount is
deducted and withheld.
   (J)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts and
returns required under this section.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Withholding by casinos and lottery sales agents, see R.C. § 718.031
37.06  INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX
§ 37.061  DETERMINING MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME FOR TAXPAYERS WHO ARE NOT
INDIVIDUALS.
   Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual for the
municipality is calculated as follows:
   (A)   Income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included in
income, multiplied by apportionment, further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward equals municipal taxable income.
      (1)   Income for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net
profit of the taxpayer.
         (a)   Net profit for a person other than an individual is defined in §
37.03(C)(23).
         (b)   Adjusted federal taxable income is defined in §
37.03(C)(1).
      (2)   Exempt income is defined in §
37.03(C)(11).
      (3)   APPORTIONMENT means the apportionment as determined by §
37.062.
      (4)   Pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward is defined in §
37.03(C)(32).
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 37.062  NET PROFIT; INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX; ALTERNATIVE
APPORTIONMENT.
   This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or profession in
the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides in the
municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company, or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
   (A)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
      (1)   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
         As used in the preceding paragraph, tangible personal or real property
shall include property rented or leased by the taxpayer and the value of such
property shall be determined by multiplying the annual rental thereon by eight;
      (2)   Wages, salaries, and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries, and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual's services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not required to be withheld under §
37.052;
      (3)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales and
rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals, and services, wherever made or performed.
   (B)   (1)   If the apportionment factors described in division (A) of this
section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer's business activity in
the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax Administrator of the
municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with respect to all or any
portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative apportionment method
involving one or more of the following:
         (a)   Separate accounting;
         (b)   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
         (c)   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality;
         (d)   A modification of one or more of the factors.
      (2)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method shall
be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment, or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
37.19(A).
      (3)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(1) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
37.19(A).
      (4)   Nothing in division (B) of this section nullifies or otherwise
affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
   (C)   As used in division (A)(2) of this section, "wages, salaries, and
other compensation" includes only wages, salaries, or other compensation paid
to an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
      (1)   A location that is owned, controlled, or used by, rented to, or
under the possession of one of the following:
         (a)   The employer;
         (b)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client, or patient;
         (c)   A vendor, customer, client, or patient of a person described in
division (C)(1)(b) of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client, or patient.
      (2)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial, or similar administrative, judicial, or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted, provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee's presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer.
      (3)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer's municipal income tax
liability. If a Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may
dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the Tax Administrator's determination was unreasonable.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A)(3) of this section, receipts from
sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a municipal
corporation as follows:
      (1)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation in which the sale originated. For the
purposes of this division, a sale of property originates in a municipal
corporation if, regardless of where title passes, the property meets any of the
following criteria:
         (a)   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation.
         (b)   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation from
a location outside the municipal corporation, provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion.
         (c)   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation, provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
      (2)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation.
      (3)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale of
real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation.
      (4)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation.
      (5)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
   (E)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the rental of
real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded entity owned
by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal corporation in
which the property generating the net profit is located and the municipal
corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net profit
resides.
      A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to use
separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
   (F)   (1)   Except as provided in division (F)(2) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase, or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase,
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase, or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
      (2)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual's net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual's annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
37.081.
   (G)   If, in computing a taxpayer's adjusted federal taxable income, the
taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted to an
employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the employee's
income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted from
taxation under §
37.03(C)(11)(l) and (C)(34)(a)4., by a municipal corporation to which the
taxpayer has apportioned a portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add
the amount that is exempt from taxation to the taxpayer's net profit that was
apportioned to that municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be
required to add to its net profit that was apportioned to that municipal
corporation any amount other than the amount upon which the employee would be
required to pay tax were the amount related to the stock option not exempted
from taxation.
      This division applies solely for the purpose of making an adjustment to
the amount of a taxpayer's net profit that was apportioned to a municipal
corporation under this section.
   (H)   When calculating the ratios described in division (A) of this section
for the purposes of that division or division (B) of this section, the owner of
a disregarded entity shall include in the owner's ratios the property, payroll,
and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Income subject to tax, see R.C. § 718.02
§ 37.063  CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS means an affiliated group as
defined in section 1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a
group includes at least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily
engaged in the business of providing local exchange telephone service in this
state, the affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange
carrier that would otherwise be included in the group.
      (2)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN means a consolidated return
filed for federal income tax purposes pursuant to section 1501 of the Internal
Revenue Code.
      (3)   CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME means the consolidated taxable
income of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of
filing a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net
operating losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME
does not include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is
excluded from the affiliated group under division (A)(1) of this section.
      (4)   INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
      (5)   LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
   (B)   (1)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
         (a)   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law.
         (b)   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (B)(2) of this section; or
         (c)   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
      (2)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income tax
returns under this section must be made in the first year following the last
year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election period in
effect under division (B)(1) of this section. The election to discontinue
filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a five-year
period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
      (3)   An election made under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is
binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations subject to a
municipal income tax.
   (C)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm's length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
   (D)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return in
the same manner as is required under the United States Department of Treasury
regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the consolidated
federal income tax return required to be filed by the common parent of the
affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2), (E)(3), and
(E)(4) of this section, corporations that file a consolidated municipal income
tax return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
37.03(C)(1), by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income" for "federal
taxable income" wherever "federal taxable income" appears in that division and
by substituting "an affiliated group of corporation's" for "a C corporation's"
wherever "a C corporation's" appears in that division.
      (2)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
37.03(C)(1) to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise
subject to the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the
computation of consolidated federal taxable income.
      (3)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at least
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity's net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
         (a)   Exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
37.062, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so excluded, the
entity shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
         (b)   Include the pass-through entity's net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in §
37.062, include the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation. If the entity's net profit or loss is so included, the
entity shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of
the entity's net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
      (4)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less than
80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group's consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
         (a)   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity's net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in §
37.062, exclude the property, payroll, and gross receipts of the pass-through
entity in the computation of the affiliated group's net profit sitused to a
municipal corporation;
         (b)   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity's net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
   (F)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall
make the computations required under §
37.062 by substituting "consolidated federal taxable income attributable to"
for "net profit from" wherever "net profit from" appears in that section and by
substituting "affiliated group of corporations" for "taxpayer" wherever
"taxpayer" appears in that section.
   (G)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is
jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines, charges,
or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with this
chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation is a
member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of such
an affiliated group.
   (H)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Consolidated municipal tax return, see R.C. § 718.06
§ 37.064  TAX CREDIT FOR BUSINESSES THAT FOSTER NEW JOBS IN OHIO.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering new jobs; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.15
§ 37.065  TAX CREDITS TO FOSTER JOB RETENTION.
   The municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable
credit against its tax on income to a taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job
retention in the municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it
shall be measured as a percentage of the income tax revenue the municipality
derives from the retained employees of the taxpayer, and shall be for a term
not exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes an ordinance allowing
such a credit, the municipality and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement
specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Fostering job retention; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.151
§ 37.07  DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   ESTIMATED TAXES means the amount that the taxpayer reasonably
estimates to be the taxpayer's tax liability for a municipal corporation's
income tax for the current taxable year.
      (2)   TAX LIABILITY means the total taxes due to a municipal corporation
for the taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is
entitled, and after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or
credit from another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld.
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or by a lottery sales agent
under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to be paid to the municipal corporation for
which the taxes were withheld on the date the taxes are withheld from the
taxpayer's winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
37.091(G) or on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the first
taxable year after the taxpayer becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the beginning of each
fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1)   The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 22.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (b)   On or before the fifteenth day of the sixth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (c)   On or before the fifteenth day of the ninth month after the
beginning of the taxable year, 67.5% of the tax liability for the taxable year;
         (d)   On or before the fifteenth day of the twelfth month of the
taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in divisions (C)(1)
(a) through (d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month of the year
following that for which the declaration or amended declaration was filed, an
annual return shall be filed and any balance which may be due shall be paid
with the return in accordance with §
37.091.
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08.
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the end
of the taxable year or period.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer's
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
37.10 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due.
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year, provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
37.091 for that year.
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on the first day of January of the calendar year that
includes the first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Estimated taxes, see R.C. § 718.08
37.08  CREDIT FOR TAX PAID
§ 37.081  CREDIT FOR TAX PAID TO ANOTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   No credit is given for municipal income tax paid to another municipality.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-14)
§ 37.082  REFUNDABLE CREDIT FOR QUALIFYING LOSS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN means a compensation plan
described in section 3121(v)(2)(C) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this section,
QUALIFYING LOSS means the excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation
the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan over the total amount of income the taxpayer has recognized
for federal income tax purposes for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as
compensation with respect to the taxpayer's receipt of money and property
attributable to distributions in connection with the nonqualified deferred
compensation plan.
         (b)   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid to
one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount of
compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the qualifying loss is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division (A)(2)(a) of this
section computed without regard to division (A)(2)(b) of this section and a
fraction the numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which
the taxpayer has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the
denominator of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (c)   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   QUALIFYING TAX RATE means the applicable tax rate for the taxable
year for which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with
respect to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which
is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the qualifying tax rate is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a refundable
credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a municipal
corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during the taxable
year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the qualifying
loss and the qualifying tax rate.
      (2)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section from
each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax with
respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more taxable
years.
      (3)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal corporation
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the amount of the
credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation shall be
calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation's proportionate share of
the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
      (4)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
   (C)   (1)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income tax
that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
   (D)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer's qualifying loss is attributable to:
      (1)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
      (2)   The employee's failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer's terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifying loss; refundable credit, see R.C. § 718.021
§ 37.083  CREDIT FOR PERSON WORKING IN JOINT ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OR
ZONE.
   A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a resident
of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone created
under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created under
R.C. § 715.70, 715.71, or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a credit
against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to §
37.081.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Worker in joint economic development zone or district, see R.C. § 718.16
§ 37.084  CREDIT FOR TAX BEYOND STATUTE FOR OBTAINING REFUND.
   (A)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
37.096.
   (B)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
37.096, the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax or
withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality's tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
   (C)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
37.096.
   (D)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Section 37.081 regarding
any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Second municipality imposing tax after time period for refund, see R.C. §
718.121
37.09  ANNUAL RETURN
§ 37.091  RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX.
   (A)   (1)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall accept on behalf of all nonresident
individual taxpayers a return filed by an employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer located in the municipality under §
37.051(C) when the nonresident individual taxpayer's sole income subject to the
tax is the qualifying wages reported by the employer, agent of an employer, or
other payer, and no additional tax is due to the municipality.
      (3)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older, shall
file an annual municipal income tax return with the municipality, regardless of
income or liability.
   (B)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent's executor,
administrator, or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
   (C)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual's duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person
charged with the care of the person or property of that individual shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the duly authorized
agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary, or other person.
   (D)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be completed
and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary shall
provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support
that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer.
This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact
information including name, address, and phone number of the fiduciary.
   (E)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
   (F)   (1)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer's duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer's social security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
      (2)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with each
annual return, amended return, or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer's Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, "Wage and Tax Statements," including all information
reported on the taxpayer's federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service
form 1040; and, with respect to an amended tax return or refund request, any
other documentation necessary to support the refund request or the adjustments
made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files the annual return
required by this section electronically is not required to provide paper copies
of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless the Tax Administrator
requests such copies after the return has been filed.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include, with
each annual net profit return, amended net profit return, or request for refund
required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer's Internal Revenue Service form 1041, form 1065, form 1120, form 1120-
REIT, form 1120F, or form 1120S, and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
      (4)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual net
profit return electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or in some other
manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to the Tax
Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is available,
submit the documents electronically through the Ohio Business Gateway or a
portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall publish a
method of electronically submitting the documents required under this division
through the Ohio Business Gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The Department
shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this division to
the appropriate Tax Administrator.
      (5)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements, or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer's
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (F) of
this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic form
or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
      (6)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns, or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses, or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under division
(G) of R.C. § 5747.08.  The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or
notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms,
together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer's taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
         (c)   In the case of individual income tax return required to be filed
by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed by a
taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to ensure
the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with this
chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and make
payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers not
otherwise required to file annual returns.
      (3)   With respect to taxpayers to whom §
37.092 applies, to the extent that any provision in this division conflicts
with any provision in §
37.092, the provision in §
37.092 prevails.
   (H)   (1)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality shall
not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the amount
due is $10 or less.
      (2)   Any taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a
taxable year pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section shall file with the
municipality an annual net profit return under division (F)(3) and (F)(4) of
this section.
   (I)   This division shall not apply to payments required to be made under §
37.051(B)(1)(b) or (c).
      (1)   If any report, claim, statement, or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement, or other document is required to be filed, or to
which the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on
the cover in which the report, claim, statement, or other document, or payment
is mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment.
THE DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
      (2)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds transfer,
the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to an account
designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments, except
that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, SUBMITTED THE PAYMENT means the date which the taxpayer has designated
for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date as the date
the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
   (J)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the agent of
an employer, or other payer as described in §
37.051 shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation as credits against
payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the amounts withheld were
not remitted to the municipality and the recipient colluded with the employer,
agent, or other payer in connection with the failure to remit the amounts
withheld.
   (K)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer's refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, offsets, or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
   (L)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing a
generic form of any income tax return, report, or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter, provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions, or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator, and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality's ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns,
reports, or documents.
   (M)   When income tax returns, reports, or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
   (N)   (1)   As used in this division, worksite location has the same meaning
as in §
37.052.
      (2)   A person may notify a tax administrator that the person does not
expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a taxable
year if both of the following conditions apply:
         (a)   The person was required to file a tax return with the municipal
corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the person
performed services at a worksite location within the municipal corporation, and
the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and remitted all
applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this chapter. The
tax administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a taxpayer who
has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation's
income tax for the taxable year.
            The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit that
briefly explains the person's circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: "The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation, or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation's resolutions, ordinances, or rules." The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
         (c)   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (N)(2) of
this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file any
tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made, or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (N) of this section prohibits the Tax Administrator from performing an
audit of the person.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 37.092  RETURN AND PAYMENT OF TAX; INDIVIDUALS SERVING IN COMBAT ZONE.
   (A)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member's or civilian's
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the 180th day after the member's or civilian's duty terminates. An
applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator considers
necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the 181st day after the applicant's active duty or
service terminates. Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, the
Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract terms as the Tax Administrator
considers appropriate.
      (2)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is qualified
for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be required to
file any return, report, or other tax document nor be required to pay any tax
otherwise due to the municipality before the 181st day after the applicant's
active duty or service terminates.
      (3)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division (B)
(1) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not require
any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes for the
extension period.
   (C)   (1)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in this
division the application of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension under
the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in which to
file any return, report, or other tax document and an extension of time in
which to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in accordance
with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under division (C)(2)(a)
of this section shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension
that the taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the national guard or a member
of a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the armed forces.
         (b)   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (C)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (C)(2)(a) of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
   (D)   For each taxable year to which division (A), (B), or (C) of this
section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) or
(C) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of that taxpayer if the
filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married filing jointly for that
year.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Filing extension for certain armed forces service, see R.C. § 718.052
§ 37.093  USE OF OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY; TYPES OF FILINGS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to the
taxpayer's net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return, or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (B)   Any employer, agent of an employer, or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
   (C)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
   (D)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers, or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The State of Ohio shall not be a
party to the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a
municipal income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing the
authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit, and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Use of Ohio Business Gateway, see R.C. § 718.051
§ 37.094  EXTENSION OF TIME TO FILE.
   (A)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return shall automatically receive
an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax return. The extended due
date of the municipal income tax return shall be the fifteenth day of the tenth
month after the last day of the taxable year to which the return relates.
   (B)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for a
period other than six-months for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
   (C)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer's federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer's municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer's requested extension.
   (D)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension of
the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension of
that date.
   (E)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date for
filing state income tax returns under division (G) of R.C. § 5747.08, a
taxpayer shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
§ 37.095  AMENDED RETURNS.
   (A)   (1)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
      (2)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer's municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
      (3)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer's consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
   (B)   (1)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under division (B)(2) of this section, the amended return shall not reopen
those facts, figures, computations, or attachments from a previously filed
return that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment
to the taxpayer's federal or state income tax return unless the applicable
statute of limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
37.19 has not expired for a previously filed return.
      (2)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be filed
under this division within the period prescribed by division (A)(2) of this
section for filing the amended return even if it is filed beyond the period
prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the requirements of
that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no refund need be
paid by the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in division (C)
(2) of this section, a request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations, or attachments required in the taxpayer's annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer's
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in §
37.096.  Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this section, the request
shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations, or attachments that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer's federal or state income tax return.
      (2)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations, and attachments were
reopened.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
   Amended returns, see R.C. § 718.41
§ 37.096  REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers, or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
      (1)   Overpayments of more than $10;
      (2)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer's claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns, or other supporting
documentation necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent
factors on the return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of
undocumented credits or losses.
      (2)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (B)
(3) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial, and instructions for appealing the assessment.
      (3)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund request
included within the taxpayer's originally filed annual income tax return, the
Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the amount of the
refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial, and instructions for
requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
37.18.
   (C)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for filing
specified in division (B) of this section shall be considered to have been
filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
      (1)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request.
      (2)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only postmark
on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private postal
meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for filing the
request, and the request is received within seven days of such last day.
      (3)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible, and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
   (D)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer of
any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until the
date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
37.10(A)(4).
   (E)   As used in this section, withholding tax has the same meaning as in §
37.10.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Requests for refunds, see R.C. § 718.19
§ 37.10  PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   APPLICABLE LAW means this chapter, the resolutions, ordinances,
codes, directives, instructions, and rules adopted by the municipality provided
such resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions, and rules impose
or directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance, or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      (2)   FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE means the rate of the average market yield
on outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining
periods to maturity of three years or less, as determined under section 1274 of
the Internal Revenue Code, for July of the current year.
      (3)   INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX, and WITHHOLDING TAX mean any
income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax imposed by a municipal
corporation pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1,
2016.
      (4)   INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION means
the federal short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus
5%.  The rate shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the
year in which the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with
division (A)(2) of this section.
      (5)   RETURN includes any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule,
and other document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal
corporation by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer, or any other
payer pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      (6)   UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX means estimated income tax due but not
paid by the date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (7)   UNPAID INCOME TAX means income tax due but not paid by the date the
income tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (8)   UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX means withholding tax due but not paid by
the date the withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      (9)   WITHHOLDING TAX includes amounts an employer, any agent of an
employer, or any other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an
employee's qualifying wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer,
agent, or other payer is required to withhold from an employee's qualifying
wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016;
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax, and withholding tax required
to be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for
taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer, or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax, or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as interest rate as
described in division (A) of this section, per annum, on all unpaid income tax,
unpaid estimated income tax, and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of $150 in assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect, or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes, and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges, or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator's sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer, or any other payer the municipality's post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Interest and penalties, see R.C. § 718.27
§ 37.11  AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
37.03(C)(3), the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer's rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is
entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant, bookkeeper,
or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a form by
which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer's attorney, accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer's case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Audits, see R.C. § 718.36
§ 37.12  ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher, or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds $.50
shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a dollar
that is less than $.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest whole
dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the person
shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Rounding of amounts, see R.C. § 718.25
37.13  AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR
§ 37.131  AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS OF THE TAX
ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties and functions
necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this chapter,
including without limitation:
   (A)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as provided
by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records, memorandums,
and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under oath, to
issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts, papers,
records, documents, and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a court for
attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the fees of
officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the powers
referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the Tax
Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
   (B)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
   (C)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
   (D)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator's findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer's assigns, or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
   (E)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to the
compromise and settlement of tax claims;
   (F)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
37.062;
   (G)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments and
orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator's own
motion, review, redetermine, or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine, or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
   (H)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law;
   (I)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in §
37.051.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Tax Administrator, see R.C. § 718.24
§ 37.132  AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; COMPROMISE OF CLAIM AND PAYMENT OVER
TIME.
   (A)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable to
the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action is
in the best interests of the municipality:
      (1)   Compromise a claim;
      (2)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim by
agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator's rejection of a compromise or payment-over-time
agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be appealable.
   (D)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
   (E)   (1)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide detailed
financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether or not a
payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer's failure to
provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator shall
preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Administration of claims, see R.C. § 718.28
§ 37.133  AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; RIGHT TO EXAMINE.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof may
examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns of
any employer, taxpayer, or other person that is subject to, or that the Tax
Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter for the
purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was
filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by the
Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer, or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent, or
employee to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal
and state income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the
request.
   (B)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer, or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator's
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
   (C)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the Tax
Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that was
or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to affect
such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any such
person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books, papers,
records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person's possession
or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an attorney,
accountant, bookkeeper, or other tax practitioner at any such hearing or
examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a person
who is not an attorney.
   (D)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records, or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24–15)
Statutory reference:
   Accuracy of returns; verification, see R.C. § 718.23
§ 37.134  AUTHORITY OF TAX ADMINISTRATOR; REQUIRING IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person's social security number, federal employer identification
number, or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
   (B)   (1)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
37.10, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
37.99.
      (2)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (A) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
37.10.
      (3)   The penalties provided for under divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of
this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or fee
with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in addition
to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
37.99 for a violation of §
37.15 and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax Administrator by
law.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Identification information, see R.C. § 718.26
§ 37.14  CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings, or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person's official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner, and tax administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)  Penalty, see §
37.99
Statutory reference:
   Tax information confidential, see R.C. § 718.13
§ 37.15  FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid, or assist in the preparation
or presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim, or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure,
counsel, or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return,
schedule, statement, claim, or document, or knowingly change, alter, or amend,
or knowingly procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration, or amendment
of the records upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim, or
document is based with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax
Administrator.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)  Penalty, see §
37.99
Statutory reference:
   Fraud, see R.C. § 718.35
§ 37.16  OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income, or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an opinion of the Tax Administrator and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G), and (H) of this
section, provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer's request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity, or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location, or other pertinent facts.
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator's response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an opinion of the Tax Administrator.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty, or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator's opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer's date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law, or the municipality's
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law, or the municipality's income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer's material facts
or circumstances;
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
37.15.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) of this section may not be
appealed.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Opinion of Tax Commissioner; request, see R.C. § 718.38
§ 37.17  ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail, or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division. A person disputing the presumption of delivery
and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a preponderance
of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent was not an
address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax Administrator
originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the purposes of this
section, a person is associated with an address at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the person was
residing, receiving legal documents, or conducting business at the address; or
if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the address and,
when the assessment was mailed, the person's agent or the person's affiliate
was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this section, a
person's affiliate is any other person that, at the time the assessment was
mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by voting rights, of
the addressee's business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Service of assessment; presumption, see R.C. § 718.18
§ 37.18  LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1)   The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of three members.
         The three members of the Local Board of Tax Review may be domiciled in
the municipality, but the appointing authority may consider membership from
individuals who are not domiciled within the municipality.
         Two members shall be appointed by the legislative authority of the
municipality, and may not be employees, elected officials, or contractors with
the municipality at any time during their term or in the five years immediately
preceding the date of appointment. One member shall be appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality. This member may be an employee of
the municipality, but may not be the Director of Finance or equivalent officer,
or the Tax Administrator or other similar official or an employee directly
involved in municipal tax matters, or any direct subordinate thereof.
      (3)   The term for members of the Local Board of Tax Review appointed by
the legislative authority of the municipality shall be two years. There is no
limit on the number of terms that a member may serve should the member be
reappointed by the legislative authority. The board member appointed by the top
administrative official of the municipality shall serve at the discretion of
the administrative official.
      (4)   Members of the Board of Tax Review appointed by the legislative
authority may be removed by the legislative authority as set forth in R.C. §
718.11(A)(4).
      (5)   A member of the board who, for any reason, ceases to meet the
qualifications for the position prescribed by this section shall resign
immediately by operation of law.
      (6)   A vacancy in an unexpired term shall be filled in the same manner
as the original appointment within 60 days of when the vacancy was created. Any
member appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which the member's predecessor was appointed shall hold office for the
remainder of such term. No vacancy on the board shall impair the power and
authority of the remaining members to exercise all the powers of the board.
      (7)   If a member is temporarily unable to serve on the board due to a
conflict of interest, illness, absence, or similar reason, the legislative
authority or top administrative official that appointed the member shall
appoint another individual to temporarily serve on the board in the member's
place. This appointment shall be subject to the same requirements and
limitations as are applicable to the appointment of the member temporarily
unable to serve.
      (8)   No member of the Local Board of Tax Review shall receive
compensation, fee, or reimbursement of expenses for service on the board.
      (9)   A member of a Local Board of Tax Review shall not be appointed to
or serve on another such board simultaneously.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer's right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed,
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the board by filing a request with the board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant, or other representative. The board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The board may affirm, reverse, or modify the Tax Administrator's
assessment or any part of that assessment. The board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the board's final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the board's
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. §
149.43.  For this reason, any documentation, copies of returns or reports,
final determinations, or working papers for each case must be maintained in a
secure location under the control of the Tax Administrator. No member of the
Local Board of Tax Review may remove such documentation, copies of returns or
reports, final determinations, or working papers from the hearing. Hearings
requested by a taxpayer before a Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to
this section are not meetings of a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22.  For
this reason, such hearings shall not be open to the public, and only those
parties to the case may be present during the hearing.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Local Board of Tax Review, see R.C. § 718.11
§ 37.19  ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b)   The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section
may be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer,
agent of the employer, other payer, or taxpayer consent in writing to the
extension. Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time
limit described in division (C) of this section.
      (2)   As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period
of time beginning and ending as follows:
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
37.18.  That date shall not be affected by any subsequent decision, finding, or
holding by any administrative body or court that the Local Board of Tax Review
with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not have jurisdiction to
affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part of that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the sixtieth day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the
sixtieth day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board
of Tax Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately
reversed and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part,
or that reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense, provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return, or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be
reported, prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission
of the offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
37.096.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
37.18, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which the decision of
the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the amount due from
the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than the amount paid,
there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant's assigns or legal
representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as provided by §
37.096, with interest on that amount as provided by division (D) of this
section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties;
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Statute of limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 37.20  ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the municipality, pursuant to this chapter,
grants authority to the Tax Administrator, to adopt rules to administer the
income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of rules, see R.C. § 718.30
37.21  LOCAL REGULATIONS
§ 37.211  DUTIES OF OWNERS OF RENTAL OR LEASED PROPERTY.
   (A)   For each piece or parcel of real property, residential, commercial or
otherwise, located within the municipality and leased or rented on or after the
effective date of this chapter, the owner, lessor, or landlord thereof shall,
within 30 days of the effective date hereof, inform the Income Tax Office in
writing of the name and address of each lessee, renter or tenant thereof.
   (B)   Within 15 days of the termination of any tenancy, the owner, lessor or
landlord shall notify the Income Tax Office in writing of the forwarding
address of the previous lessee, renter or tenant.
   (C)   The Income Tax Office shall have the responsibility to issue periodic
tenant up-date requests to owners of rental or leased residential, commercial
or industrial property. Within 30 days of the issuance of the request the
property owner shall notify the Tax Department of its accuracy and note any
changes in tenants, including the dates that tenants moved in or out of the
property and shall also update the Tax Department as to any rental properties
which have sold or purchased. The periodic requests may be issued once per
quarter.
   (D)   The response shall be filed with the Tax Department on a form or forms
furnished by, or obtainable from, the Income Tax Office.
   (E)   Every owner, lessor or landlord subject to the provisions of division
(A) of this section is under a continuing duty to notify the Tax Department
whenever a piece or parcel of real property, residential, commercial or
otherwise, is agin rented to any subsequent lessee, renter or tenant. Such
notification shall provide the same information to the Tax Department as set
forth in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
§ 37.97  COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
37.19.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
37.091 as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
§ 37.98  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality, or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
§ 37.99  VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever violates
§§
37.051,
37.14(A), or
37.15 by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and withheld from an
employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term of up to
six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by dismissal from
office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of section 7213(a), 7213A, or 7431 of the Internal
Revenue Code shall be guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the
violation is punishable by dismissal from office or discharge from employment,
or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
37.14(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree
on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree; on each
subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. By way of an illustrative
enumeration, violations of this chapter shall include but not be limited to the
following acts, conduct, and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to pay the tax, penalties, and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the city income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality as required by §
37.051;
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person's income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers'
income or net profits, such person's employer's income or net profits;
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct social security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer, or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect, or refuse to make any payment of
estimated municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable
year in accordance with this chapter;
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter.
      (14)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation.
      (15)   For purposes of this section, the term PERSON shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in §
37.03, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the city, any employee or agent of such corporation, association, pass-
through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or supervision
over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal income tax
returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as required by this
chapter.
(Ord. 18-2015, passed 11-24-15)
Statutory reference:
   Violations; penalties, see R.C. § 718.99
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   ELECTRICITY
      
52.   GARBAGE COLLECTION
      
53.   SEWERS
      
54.   WATER
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Security deposit required
   
50.02   Refunds; unpaid bills
   
50.03   Records
   
50.04   Billing for water and sewer charges
   
50.05   Assessment and collection of sanitation charges
   
50.06   Charging and collection of utility accounts
   
50.07   Payment date for utility customer accounts
§ 50.01  SECURITY DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Effective December 1, 1972, the village shall require of each new
customer of the utilities departments deposits as follows:
      (1)   $400 for customers of all utilities (i.e. electric, water, sewer
and sanitation).
      (2)   $200 for customers outside the village having electric only.
      (3)   $100 for customers outside the village having water only.
   (B)   No security deposit shall be required of new customers who own real
estate in the village for which utility services are requested. It shall be
incumbent upon the customer to produce evidence of ownership to the Village
Fiscal Officer to be exempt from such security deposit. Land contracts and
other purchase agreements which do not vest title in a customer shall not be
deemed evidence of title sufficient to warrant an exemption from the security
deposit requirements.
(`94 Code, § 941.01)  (Am. Ord. 32-05, passed 11-22-05)
§ 50.02  REFUNDS; UNPAID BILLS.
   Upon the termination of utility services, for any reason, the customer shall
forthwith be entitled to a refund of his or her security deposit, after his or
her account with the village is settled. Such security deposit shall bear no
interest. The Village Fiscal Officer is hereby authorized to apply the security
deposit to any unpaid utility bill if the account with the village is not
settled within 30 days after the utility services are disconnected.
(`94 Code, § 941.02)  (Ord. 14-72, passed 11-21-72; Am. Ord. 2-2003, passed 1-
14-03)
§ 50.03  RECORDS.
   The Village Fiscal Officer shall permanently maintain a separate ledger in
which the names of those customers making a security deposit shall be entered
and the date thereof.  The Village Fiscal Officer shall also enter into such
ledger the date the security deposit is refunded to the customer or applied to
an unpaid account pursuant to this chapter, upon discontinuance of utilities
services. Each customer shall be required to affix his or her signature on a
line opposite the entry of his or her security deposit upon the refund of such
deposit by the Village Fiscal Officer.
(`94 Code, § 941.03)  (Ord. 14-72, passed 11-21-72)
§ 50.04  BILLING FOR WATER AND SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   The billings for services of the Water and Sewer Departments shall be
made on a monthly basis, based upon monthly readings for actual usage. Such
billings shall include billing for sanitation services, pursuant to a village
contract.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) hereof shall be effective for any and
all billings made on or after July 1, 1988.
   (C)   The billings regulated in this section shall otherwise be in
accordance with the terms and conditions for such billings as have been or may
hereafter be established by ordinance.
(`94 Code, § 941.04)  (Ord. 22-81, passed 7-29-81; Am. Ord. 17-88, passed 6-14-
88)
§ 50.05  ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF SANITATION CHARGES.
   All charges for sanitation services shall become due and payable at the same
time as charges for water services. If charges for sanitation services are not
paid when due, such delinquent charges shall be certified to the appropriate
County Auditor to be collected in the same manner as provided in R.C. § 743.04
for the assessment of water charges.
(`94 Code, § 941.05)  (Ord. 21-88, passed 6-27-88)
§ 50.06  CHARGING AND COLLECTION OF UTILITY ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Each water, sanitary sewer and electric charge made for village
service is made a lien upon the corresponding lot, parcel of land, building or
premises served by a connection to the village water, sanitary sewer or
electric system and if same is not paid within 30 days after it is due and
payable, it shall be certified to the Auditor of Huron or Richland Counties, at
which time the lien shall vest, and the Auditor shall place the same on the tax
duplicate of the county with the interest and penalties allowed by law and be
collected as other taxes.
   (B)   The owners of real estate premises served with water, sanitary sewer
and electric shall be liable for all such utility charges incurred for service
at said premises.
   (C)   Tenants of the owners of real estate premises serviced with water,
sanitary sewer and electric may contract with the village for such utility
services but such contract shall in no way be construed as to relieve the owner
of the real estate premises of liability for such utility charges.
   (D)   After the Village Administrator has determined that any particular
water, sanitary sewer or electric service charge is unpaid and delinquent, the
Village Administrator is authorized and directed to shut off the delinquent
utility service to those real estate premises until such unpaid utility charge
has been paid.
   (E)   The owner of real estate premises, by installing, connecting to or
maintaining water, sanitary sewer or electric service from the village, is
deemed to assent to all rules and regulations of the Village Administrator and
ordinances of the village pertaining to water, sanitary sewer and electric
service and distribution.
(Ord. 5-2009, passed 2-24-09)
§ 50.07  PAYMENT DATE FOR UTILITY CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All village utility customer bills forwarded to a customer shall have
as the due date the 20th of each  month.
   (B)   Any customer payment not received by the Utility Clerk by the 20th of
the month on which it is due shall be considered a late payment.
(Ord. 5-2016, passed 3-8-16)
CHAPTER 51:  ELECTRICITY
Section
   
51.01   Rules and regulations
   
51.02   Auxiliary electric generators; responsibilities of Administrator
   
51.03   Application for service
   
51.04   Deposit
   
51.05   Rates
   
51.06   Budgeted terms of payments
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Pursuant to the authority of R.C. § 735.273, the Village Administrator shall
adopt such rules and regulations as he or she deems necessary for the
administration of electric rates and services. No person shall violate or fail
to comply with any of such rules and regulations.
(`94 Code, § 949.04)  (Ord. 1-83, passed 1-26-83) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.02  AUXILIARY ELECTRIC GENERATORS; RESPONSIBILITIES OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Village Administrator or the electrician on duty at the time that
the normal supply to the electrical system of the village is disrupted, for any
reason or cause, shall have the exclusive and primary responsibility to place
the auxiliary electric generators into service to supply power to the essential
facilities and services of the village.
   (B)   The Administrator shall have the exclusive responsibility to service
and maintain such auxiliary generators on a periodic schedule, including the
operation and testing of such generators at least once each month.
   (C)   The Administrator shall maintain a record of the service performed to
such auxiliary generators, including the date and time that such generators are
inspected and tested each month. Such record shall be subject to the inspection
of Council on request.
(`94 Code, § 949.05)  (Ord. 14-74, passed 5-7-74)
§ 51.03  APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   A written application is required from each customer before connecting such
customer or transferring an account to his or her name, which application, when
duly accepted by the Utility Clerk shall constitute an agreement between the
customer and the village.
(`94 Code, § 949.01)  (Ord. 27-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 51.04  DEPOSIT.
   If the applicant is not the owner of the property on which the electric
service is to be used, a deposit of $100 is required of such applicant or such
applicant shall be required to furnish a good and sufficient freehold surety on
such application, which surety shall be required to sign the applicant's
application for service. Application forms shall be provided in accordance with
this section by the Utility Clerk.
(`94 Code, § 949.02)  (Ord. 27-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 51.05  RATES.
   The rates and charges set forth in the village's electric rate schedules
shall be increased by an amount equal to the excise (kilowatt-hour) tax imposed
on the village's electric distribution system under R.C. § 5727.81. The
increase shall become effective with the bills rendered on or after April 15,
2002, and shall thereafter be automatically adjusted to reflect any change in
the kilowatt-hour tax imposed by R.C. § 5727.81.
(`94 Code, § 949.03)  (Ord. 1-83, passed 1-26-83; Am. Ord. 18-2002, passed 4-
30-02; Am. Ord. 3-2005, passed 2-22-05)
§ 51.06  BUDGETED TERMS OF PAYMENTS.
   (A)   Upon the request of the consumer who utilizes municipal electric
service, and upon the approval of the Village Administrator, a Budget Plan for
the payment of municipal electric service may be elected by consumer. Based on
actual experience, or estimated consumption where there is not actual
experience, the village will compute the annual service bill for electric
service and divide same by 12. The result shall be the amount to be paid by
consumer as his “average monthly budget electric bill.” The annual billing
period ends in July of each year. In the event there is any difference between
the budgeted monthly billing and the actual service used by consumer, then in
the case of any underpayment to the village, the consumer shall be billed in
the July bill which will be in addition to the regular budget billing. Any
overpayment will be credited to the consumer's future billing. In the event the
electric service is terminated prior to the completion of the annual adjustment
in July, then the Village Administrator shall prepare a final billing to the
date of termination and apply the additional billing or credit as required.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall implement a program to notify all
consumers of municipal electric service of the option to elect participation in
budget electric billing.
   (C)   That the budget billing program shall commence July 1, 2007.
(Res. 10-2007, passed 4-24-07)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(`94 Code, § 949.99)
CHAPTER 52:  GARBAGE COLLECTION
Section
   
52.01   Participation in collection service required
   
52.02   (Reserved)
   
52.03   Collection; payment for service; placement of containers
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01  PARTICIPATION IN COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIRED.
   Every owner or person in control and possession of a building, premises or
place of business in the village shall participate in the collection of garbage
and rubbish by the collector approved by the village, as provided in §
52.03, or by such other method approved by Council.
(`94 Code, § 961.03)  (Ord. 9-69, passed 5-20-69) 
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.02  (RESERVED)
§ 52.03  COLLECTION; PAYMENT FOR SERVICE; PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Every owner of a building, premises or place of business in the
village shall pay the garbage collector approved by the village for the
collection of garbage and rubbish. If a person other than the owner is in
possession and control of such building, premises or place of business, such
person shall make the payments in the place of the owner. Such payments shall
be payable as required by the collector.
   (B)   The collector shall provide for the collection and removal of garbage
and rubbish once a week, in return for payment of the agreed rates by the owner
or person in possession and control of the building, premises or place of
business.
   (C)   (1)   Garbage and rubbish shall be collected at the curbside. The
owner or person in possession and control of the building, premises or place of
business shall place the containers along the curb on the day of collection.
Collection shall be made on the same day of each week, unless the collector
otherwise notifies the owner or person in possession and control.
      (2)   Garbage and rubbish for curbside pickup shall mean only such
customary business or household waste that is placed in plastic bags or
containers not exceeding 50 gallons capacity.
      (3)   All non-garbage or rubbish business or household waste materials,
including but not limited to appliances, furniture, bedding, tires, water
heaters and televisions, shall not be placed on any village street or tree lawn
curbside unless:
         (a)   The owner or person having control and possession of a building,
premises or place of business has contacted and scheduled an actual pickup date
of such items with the village's contracted collection service provider. The
village's utility office shall be contacted informing it of the scheduled date
of pickup prior to placement on the curbside for scheduled pickup.
         (b)   The owner or person having control and possession of a building,
premises or place of business shall not place any item or property scheduled to
be picked up sooner than 12 hours prior to the scheduled pickup or leave such
items or property at the curbside more than 12 hours after the actual scheduled
pickup date.
   (D)   Pursuant to a contract with the collector approved by the village,
billing for garbage and rubbish collection services shall be made by the
village as part of its regular utility billing process.
      (1)   The monthly charge for basic residential waste removal shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Commencing January 1, 2019:   $14.80.
         (b)   Commencing January 1, 2020:   $15.20.
         (c)   Commencing January 1, 2021:   $15.75.
      (2)   The monthly charge for basic commercial waste removal [not
requiring a dumpster and being less than four yards] shall be as follows:
         (a)   Commencing January 1, 2019:   $14.80.
         (b)   Commencing January 1, 2020:   $15.20.
         (c)   Commencing January 1, 2021:   $15.75.
(`94 Code, §961.02)  (Ord. 9-69, passed 5-20-69; Am. Ord. 22-98, passed 11-10-
98; Am. Ord. 02-2002, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 18-05, passed 6-14-05; Am. Ord.
40-2008, passed 12-9-08; Am. Res. 9-2019, passed 1-29-19; Am. Ord. 13-2019,
passed 8-13-19; Am. Res. 28-2019, passed 11-26-19; Am. Res. 32-2020, passed 12-
29-20)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(`94 Code, § 961.99)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Expansion of utilities and sewers beyond corporate limits
   
53.03   Special terms and conditions
   
53.04   Private sewage disposal systems
   
53.05   Tampering with sewage works property
   
53.06   Interruptions of service
Sewer Use
   
53.20   Use of public sewers required; installation and maintenance
   
53.21   Unlawful deposits and discharges
   
53.22   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
53.23   Building sewers and connections
   
53.24   Control manholes; observation, sampling and measurement of wastes
   
53.25   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
Rates and Charges; Billing Procedures
   
53.40   Service charges
   
53.41   Metering of water usage
   
53.42   Billing and payment
   
53.43   Bills and notices; responsibilities of municipality and customers
   
53.44   Discontinuance of service; deposit to maintain credit
   
53.45   Delinquency; collections
   
53.46   Liability for charges; deposit required
   
53.47   Collection; sewer account; records
Administration and Enforcement
   
53.60   Application for service
   
53.61   Cancellation of application; discontinuance of service
   
53.62   Right of entry
   
53.63   Violations; notice to correct
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  The liquid waste from industrial processes as
distinguished from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR.  Any person duly authorized by Council to inspect and approve the
installation of building sewers and their connections to the public sewerage
system.
   MAY.  Is permissive.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company , association, society, corporation
or group.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE.  A combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of the Municipal Sewage Works or his or
her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
(`94 Code, § 945.01)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.02  EXPANSION OF UTILITIES AND SEWERS BEYOND CORPORATE LIMITS.
   (A)   No utilities or sewer owned, operated or controlled by the village
shall be extended beyond the corporate limits of the village, nor shall any
such utility be sold, bartered, donated or supplied in any manner to service
property, persons, corporations or things not situated or permanently located
within such corporate limits unless approved, upon application, by a majority
of Council.
   (B)   This section shall have no application in instances where utilities of
any nature have previously been extended beyond the corporate limits, but
shall, on and after the date of the enactment of this section (Ordinance 8-71,
passed June 15, 1971), prohibit expansion, enlargement or extension of such
facilities presently in existence and maintained and controlled by the village
outside its corporate limits unless approved, upon application, by a majority
of Council.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) hereof,
utilities may be supplied for use and consumption outside the corporate limits
for purposes of fighting and preventing fires and for any emergency, temporary
in nature, declared by the Mayor to exist.
(`94 Code, § 945.04)  (Ord. 8-71, passed 6-15-71; Am. Ord. 22-82, passed 6-30-
88)
§ 53.03  SPECIAL TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   Special terms and conditions may be made where sewer service is used by the
municipality or community for public purposes, such as public parks.
(`94 Code, § 945.05)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.04  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.20(B), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all the requirements of the County Board of Health.
   (B)   Whenever a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
sewage disposal system, as provided in §
53.20(B), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tank, cesspool or similar private sewage
disposal facility previously authorized shall be abandoned.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain authorized private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner, at all times, at no expense to the
village.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as interfering
with additional requirements that may be imposed by the State Health
Department.
(`94 Code, § 945.09)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.05  TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the Municipal Sewage Works. Whoever violates this
section shall be subject to immediate arrest under a charge of disorderly
conduct.
(`94 Code, § 945.13)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.06  INTERRUPTIONS OF SERVICE.
   The municipality will make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruptions
of service and, when such interruptions occur, will endeavor to re-establish
service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever service is interrupted for
the purpose of working on the collection system or the treatment equipment, all
consumers affected by such interruption will be notified in advance whenever it
is possible to do so.
(`94 Code, § 945.25)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73)
SEWER USE
§ 53.20  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
   (B)   The owner of a house, building or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purpose, situated in the village and abutting
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may be
located a public sewer or combined sewer of the village, is hereby required at
his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect
such facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with this
chapter within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so, provided
that such public sewer is within 100 feet of the property line.
   (C)   The village shall install and maintain at its expense that portion of
the service from the main to the lot or easement line of the owner's premises.
The size and slope of building sewers are subject to the approval of the
authorized personnel of the village, but in no event shall the diameter be less
than four inches. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
(`94 Code, § 945.08)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.21  UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS AND DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner upon public or private property in the village, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or other objectionable waste which ordinarily would be regarded as
sewage or industrial waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge to any natural outlet in the village, or in
any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sanitary sewage, industrial
waste or other polluted water, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer any storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted industrial process water, footer drainage
or sump pump drainage.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewer any harmful water or waste, whether liquid, solid or gas, capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the Municipal Sewage Works, or other interference
with the proper operation of the Sewage Works.
(`94 Code, § 945.06)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73; Am. Ord. 35-2008, passed 10-
14-08) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.22  PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   The admission into the public sewer of any water or waste having harmful or
objectionable characteristics shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Superintendent of the Municipal Sewage Works who may prescribe limits on
the strength and character of such water or waste. Where necessary, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall provide, at his or her expense,
such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to treat such water or waste
prior to discharge to the public sewer. Plans, specifications and other
pertinent information relating to the proposed preliminary treatment facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the Superintendent and no construction
of such facilities shall be commenced until such approval is obtained in
writing. Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any water or
waste, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(`94 Code, § 945.07)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.23  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit and Bond Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make
any connection with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereto without first obtaining a written permit therefor from the
Village Administrator. Before a permit is issued for an excavation for plumbing
in any public street, way or alley, the applicant for such permit must execute
unto the village and deposit with the Village Fiscal Officer a corporate surety
of $5,000 conditioned that upon the applicant's performing faithfully all work
with due care and skill in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations
established under the authority or any ordinance of the village pertaining to
plumbing. Such bond shall state that the applicant will indemnify and save
harmless the village and the owner of the premises against all damages, costs,
expenses, outlays and claims of any kind arising out of unskillfulness or
negligence on the applicant's part in connection with the plumbing or the
excavation for plumbing as prescribed in this chapter. Such bond shall remain
in force and shall be executed for five years, except that upon such expiration
it shall remain in force as to all penalties, claims and demands that may have
accrued thereunder prior to such expiration.
   (B)   Classes of Permits: Fees. There are two classes of building sewer
permits: one for residential service and one for service to establishments
producing industrial waste. In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall
make application on a special form furnished by the Administrator. Permit
applications shall be supplemented by such plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the inspector. An
inspection fee of $10 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit and
$25 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Village Fiscal
Officer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   Costs: Indemnification of village. All costs and expenses incidental
to the installation and connection of a building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner or the person installing the building sewer for the owner
shall indemnify the village for any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by such installation.
   (D)   Separate Sewers Required. A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building, except where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
constructed to the rear property through an adjoining alley, court, yard or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer. Other exceptions
shall be allowed only by special permission granted by the Superintendent of
the Municipal Sewage Works.
   (E)   Old Building Sewers. Old building sewers or portions thereof may be
used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination
and test by the inspector, to meet all of the requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Construction of Sewers. The building sewer shall be constructed of
either vitrified clay sewer pipes and fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M.
specifications for standard or extra-strength clay sewer pipe; asbestos cement;
plastic P.V.C. pipes and fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M. specifications;
extra-heavy cast iron soil pipes meeting the current A.S.T.M. specifications or
the Department of Commerce commercial standards for extra heavy cast iron soil
pipe and fittings; or concrete sewer pipes and fittings meeting the current
A.S.T.M. specifications for standard or extra-strength concrete sewer pipe. If
installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast
iron soil pipe, except that vitrified clay pipe or concrete pipe may be
accepted if laid on a suitable improved bed or cradle as approved by the
inspector.
   (G)   Joints and Connections. All joints and connections shall be made
gastight and watertight. Vitrified clay sewer pipe shall be fitted with
factory-made resilient compression joints meeting the A.S.T.M. specifications
for vitrified clay pipe joints having resilient properties (Designation 0425).
Concrete sewer pipe joints shall be of the rubber ring, flexible compression
type, similar and equal to joints specified for vitrified clay pipe. Before
joining a pipe in the trench, the bell and spigot surfaces shall be wiped free
of dirt or other foreign matter. A lubricant or sealer, as recommended by the
pipe manufacturer, shall be applied to the bell and spigot mating surfaces just
before they are joined together. The spigot end shall be positioned into the
bell end of the pipe previously laid and shall then be shoved home to compress
the joint and to ensure a tight fit between the interfaces. Joints for cast
iron soil pipe shall be made by inserting a roll of hemp or jute and thoroughly
caulking it into place and then following with pure molten lead well caulked,
not less than one inch deep. No paint, varnish or putty is allowed in the
joints until they have been tested and approved. Joints for cast iron soil pipe
may also be of an acceptable compression type.  Asbestos-cement pipe joints
shall be made with sleeves and rubber sealing rings.  Plastic P.V.C. pipe
joints shall be made with sleeves and/or rubber sealing rings.
   (H)   Size and Slope. The size and slope of a building sewer is subject to
the approval of the inspector, but in no event shall the diameter thereof be
less than four inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall be not less than
one-eighth of an inch per foot. A slope of one-fourth of an inch per foot shall
be used wherever practical.
   (I)   Elevation. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to
the building at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth shall be
sufficient to afford protection from frost. All excavations required for the
installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise
approved by the inspector. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in
accordance with A.S.T.M. specifications (Designation C12), except that no
backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by the inspector or
his or her representative.
   (J)   Artificial Lifting of Sewage. In all buildings in which the building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such drains shall be lifted by an approved artificial means and
discharged to the building sewer. No water operated sewage ejector shall be
used.
   (K)   Point of Connection. The connection of the building sewer into the
public sewer shall be made at the "Y" branch designated for that property, if
such branch is available at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the
designated "Y" branch in the main sewer shall be made only as directed by the
inspector.
   (L)   Notification of Inspector Prior to Connection. The applicant for the
building sewer shall notify the inspector when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the inspector or his or her representative.
   (M)  Guarding of Excavations: Restoration of Streets and Sidewalks. All
excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator.
   (N)   Nonliability of Village. The Village shall in no event be held
responsible for any claim made against it by reason of the breaking of a main
or service pipe or by reason of any other interruption of the service caused by
the breaking of machinery or the stoppage of necessary repairs. No person shall
be entitled to damages or have any portion of a payment refunded for any
interruption.
   (O)   Inspections. The premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall, at
all reasonable hours, be subject to inspection by duly authorized personnel of
the village.
(`94 Code, § 945.10)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.24  CONTROL MANHOLES; OBSERVATION, SAMPLING AND MEASUREMENT OF WASTES.
   When required by the Superintendent of the Municipal Sewage Works, the owner
of any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall
install and maintain at his or her expense a suitable control manhole in the
building sewer to facilitate the observation, sampling and measurement of
wastes. All measurements, tests and analyses for the characteristics of water
and waste shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Sewage and shall be determined at the control manhole
or upon suitable samples taken at such manhole. If no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected.
(`94 Code, § 945.11)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.25  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable waste, sand or other
harmful ingredient, except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. Where installed, they shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(`94 Code, § 945.11)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
RATES AND CHARGES; BILLING PROCEDURES
§ 53.40  SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a sewer service charge for the use of and
for the service supplied by the sanitary sewerage system of the municipality,
based upon the amount and rate of water consumed, as follows:
 
Rate                                  Sewer Service Charge
First 2,000 gallons or less per month $46.02 per month (minimum monthly bill)
Next 5,000 gallons                    $4.61 per 1,000 gallons or fractions
                                      thereof
Next 10,000 gallons                   $4.08 per 1,000 gallons or fractions
                                      thereof
All over 17,000 gallons per month     $2.83 per 1,000 gallons or fractions
                                      thereof
 
   (B)   In no case shall the minimum monthly service charge be less than the
amount set forth in division (A) above for the first 2,000 gallons or less,
which is necessary to retire the indebtedness, to operate and maintain the
sanitary sewer facility and to keep a reserve for future maintenance of the
facility. Twelve and one-half percent of such charge shall be set aside in a
Sewer Emergency Escrow Fund for unforeseen and unexplained expenditures,
including maintenance and rehabilitation of the facility, to provide sufficient
funds for cleaning of the sludge lagoon, matching funds, inspections and 45
days of annual operating expenditures.
   (C)   Customers of the sanitary sewer facility, who are not also customers
of the municipal water system, shall pay a minimum monthly charge of the amount
set forth in division (A) above as the charge for the first 2,000 gallons or
less.
   (D)   Service to industrial establishments may be rendered by contract if
the municipality deems this to be in its best interest.
   (E)   Water tap fees are $600 each and sewer tap fees are $1,000 each.
(`94 Code, §945.15)  (Ord. 6-90, passed 2-13-90; Am. Ord. 5-97, passed 2-11-97;
Am. Ord. 13-97, passed 5-6-97; Am. Ord. 14-2001, passed 5-22-01; Am. Ord. 20-
07, passed 5-22-07; Am. Ord. 28-2008, passed 7-22-08; Am. Ord. 9-2009, passed
4-28-09; Am. Ord. 13-2009, passed 5-26-09; Am. Ord. 27-2011, passed 11-22-11;
Am. Ord. 17-2013, passed 9-10-13; Am. Ord. 10-2014, passed 4-22-14; Am. Ord.
15-2017, passed 9-12-17; Am. Ord. 11-2019, passed 7-9-19)
§ 53.41  METERING OF WATER USAGE.
   (A)   Not later than October 31, 1981, all premises in the village having a
source of water shall be connected to the village sewerage system so that the
water supply may be discharged into such system. The owner of any such premises
shall be liable under this section.
   (B)   On premises using water supplied from sources other than the
waterworks system of the village, such as wells or ponds, and not otherwise
metered in a manner acceptable to the Administrator, the quantity of water
consumed shall be measured, for the purpose of properly charging for all water
disposed of into the village sewerage system, by a meter, approved by the
Administrator, which shall be installed and maintained for such purpose at the
expense of the owner of such premises.
(`94 Code, § 945.16)  (Ord. 28-81, passed 8-27-81)
§ 53.42  BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   Bills for the charges set forth in §§
53.40 and
53.41 shall be sent monthly. All bills shall be forwarded to the customer by
the twentieth day of the month following the period of service, at the office
of the Utility Clerk. If any charge for the service of the system is not paid
by the twentieth day of the month in which it is due and payable, a charge of
10% of the amount of the bill shall be added thereto and collected therewith
and written final notice of such delinquency shall be served on the customer by
the municipality. If any bill for the service of the system remains unpaid more
than 30 days after the bill therefor has been sent to the customer, the water
supply for the lot, parcel of land or premises affected shall be cut off and
shall not be turned on again unless and until the delinquent charges are paid
to the village, together with an additional charge of $25.
(`94 Code, § 945.17)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73; Am. Ord. 10-73S, passed 4-9-
73)
§ 53.43  BILLS AND NOTICES; RESPONSIBILITIES OF MUNICIPALITY AND CUSTOMERS.
   Bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the
municipality under this chapter shall be mailed to a customer at the address
listed on the application, unless a change of address has been filed in writing
at the business office of the municipality. The municipality shall not
otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice, nor will any
customer be excused from nonpayment of a bill or from any performance required
in such notice.
(`94 Code, § 945.18)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.44  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; DEPOSIT TO MAINTAIN CREDIT.
   Where the water and/or sewer service supplied to a customer has been
discontinued for nonpayment of a bill, the municipality reserves the right to
request that a nominal sum be placed on deposit with the municipality for the
purpose of establishing or maintaining a customer's credit.
(`94 Code, § 945.19)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.45  DELINQUENCY; COLLECTIONS.
   All sewer charges levied pursuant to this chapter constitute a lien upon the
premises charged therewith and if the same are not paid within 60 days after
their due date, they shall be certified to the Huron or Richland County
Auditor, based upon the location of the property, who shall place the same on
the tax duplicate for collection, together with all penalties allowed by law,
as other municipal taxes.
(`94 Code, § 945.20)  (Ord. 10-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.46  LIABILITY FOR CHARGES; DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   The owner of the premises served and the occupant thereof and the user of
the sanitary sewer service shall be jointly and severally liable for the sewer
service provided to such premises. A deposit of $100 shall be required from all
tenants. The deposit shall be applied to any bill for sewer service that is
delinquent more than 30 days. Upon the disconnection of the sewer service, any
balance of such deposit shall be returned to the applicant without interest.
(`94 Code, § 945.21)  (Ord. 10-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.47  COLLECTION; SEWER ACCOUNT; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall render bills for sewer service and
all other charges in connection therewith and shall collect all moneys due
therefrom.
(`94 Code, § 945.22)
   (B)   All revenues and moneys derived from the operation of the sewerage
system shall be paid to and held by the Village Fiscal Officer separate and
apart from all other funds of the municipality and all of such sums and all
other funds and moneys received by the Village Fiscal Officer incident to the
operation of such system shall be deposited in a separate fund designated the
Sanitary Sewer Fund Account, and the Village Fiscal Officer shall administer
such fund in every respect in the manner provided by the Ohio Revised Code and
all other laws pertaining thereto.
(`94 Code, § 945.23)
   (C)   The Village Fiscal Officer shall establish a proper system of accounts
and shall keep proper records, books and accounts in which complete and correct
entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the sewerage system. At
regular annual intervals, Council shall cause to be made an audit of such
records, books and accounts by an independent auditor to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system. 
(`94 Code, § 945.24)  (Ord. 10-73S, passed 4-9-73)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 53.60  APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Applications for sewer service shall be filed with the Village Fiscal
Officer upon a form to be supplied by the municipality.  The application shall
state the name of the applicant and the premises to be served.  All
applications filed after the commencement of the operation of the system shall
be accompanied by a fee of $50, payable to the Village Fiscal Officer, as a
connection charge, plus an inspection fee as provided in §
53.23(B).
(`94 Code, § 945.02)  (Ord. 10-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.61  CANCELLATION OF APPLICATION; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Applications for sewer service may be canceled and/or sewer service
discontinued by the village for any violation of a rule, regulation or
condition of service or for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property or fixtures to
be serviced by the sanitary sewerage system;
   (B)   Nonpayment of bills; or
   (C)   Improper or imperfect service pipes and fixtures or failure to keep
the same in a suitable state of repair.
(`94 Code, § 945.03)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.62  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Superintendent of the Municipal Sewage Works, the inspector and other
duly authorized employees of the village bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purposes
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance
with this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 945.14)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73)
§ 53.63  VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO CORRECT.
   Any person found to be violating any of the provisions of this chapter,
except §
53.05, shall be served by the Village Administrator with written notice of such
violation, which notice shall state the nature of the violation and provide a
reasonable time, as determined by the Administrator, for the satisfactory
correction thereof. No person shall fail to comply with such notice within the
period of time stipulated therein.
(`94 Code, § 945.26)  (Ord. 8-73S, passed 4-9-73) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
53.05 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and shall be fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 60 days, or both, for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §
53.41 shall be fined $100 for the first day of such violation or noncompliance
and $10 per day for each additional day of such violation or noncompliance. 
(Ord. 28-81, passed 8-27-81)
   (C)   Whoever violates §
53.63 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues after the period for compliance, as
provided in the notice, has expired.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties provided in divisions (A) and (B) hereof,
whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be liable to the village for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the
village by reason of such violation or noncompliance.
(`94 Code, § 945.99)
CHAPTER 54:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Approval of private, auxiliary or emergency connections required
   
54.02   Surveys and investigations
   
54.03   Inspections; right of entry
   
54.04   Discontinuance of service
   
54.05   Rates
   
54.06   Remote reader, tap and pit meter fees
   
54.07   Nonresidential tap fees
   
54.08   Multi-occupied and multi-unit facilities
   
54.09   Water pipe specifications
   
54.10   Meters and remote meters
   
54.11   Backflow contamination prevention
Administrative
   
54.90   Request for hearing
 
   
54.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01  APPROVAL OF PRIVATE, AUXILIARY OR EMERGENCY CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   No person shall establish or maintain or permit to be established or
maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply, other than the regular public water supply of the village, may enter
the supply or distribution system of the village, unless such private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply have been approved by the Village Administrator or his or her
authorized representative and the State Department of Health.
(`94 Code, § 943.01)  (Ord. 21-65, passed 6-15-65)
§ 54.02  SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Village Administrator or his or her authorized representative shall
cause surveys and investigations to be made of all industrial and other
properties serviced by the public water supply where private, auxiliary or
emergency water supplies, other than the public water supply, are known to
exist or where such supplies are likely to exist. Such surveys and
investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated as
often as the Administrator or his or her authorized representative deems
necessary.
(`94 Code, § 943.02)  (Ord. 21-65, passed 6-15-65)
§ 54.03  INSPECTIONS; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Village Administrator or his or her authorized representative shall have
the right, at any time, to enter any property served by a connection to the
public water supply or distribution system of the village for the purpose of
inspecting the meters or the piping system of the municipal water system. The
Village Administrator or his or her authorized representative must be given
free access during reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting and
installing meters, examining fixtures, and observing the manner in which the
water is used. On the demand, the owner, lessee or occupant of any property so
served shall furnish to the Village Administrator or his or her authorized
representative any information which he or she may request regarding the piping
system or any private, auxiliary or emergency water supply used or capable of
being used on such property. The refusal of such information, when demanded,
shall, at the discretion of the Village Administrator or his or her authorized
representative, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper connections as
provided in this chapter. In case the Village Administrator or any authorized
representative or meter reader is refused admittance to any premises or shall
be hindered or prevented from making an inspection or installing, repairing or
replacing a water meter, the water will be turned off and not turned on again
until free access is given.
(`94 Code, §943.03)  (Ord. 21-65, passed 6-15-65; Am. Ord. 15-07, passed 4-24-
07)
§ 54.04  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The Village Administrator or his or her authorized representative is hereby
authorized and directed to discontinue water service, giving reasonable notice
to the occupant thereof, to any property whereon a connection in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as may be necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply or distribution mains. Water service
to such property shall not be restored until such connection has been
eliminated or corrected in compliance with this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 943.04)  (Ord. 21-65, passed 6-15-65)
§ 54.05  RATES.
   (A)   Inside Corporate Limits. The rates for water users in the village
shall be as follows:
 
Gallons per Month           Water Service Charge
First 2,000 gallons or less $31.33 (minimum monthly bill)
2,001 - 6,000               $9.58 per 1,000 gallons or fractions thereof
6,001- 20,000               $9.47 per 1,000 gallons or fractions thereof
20,001 - 50,000             $9.15 per 1,000 gallons or fractions thereof
Over 50,000                 $8.98 per 1,000 gallons or fractions thereof
 
(Ord. 18-88, passed 6-14-88; Am. Ord. 24-99, passed 12-28-99; Am. Ord. 13-2001,
passed 5-22-01; Am. Ord. 35-2001, passed 11-27-01; Am. Ord. 4-2003, passed 2-
11-03; Am. Ord. 6-2003, passed 2-25-03; Am. Ord. 12-2008, passed 2-26-08; Am.
Ord. 27-2008, passed 7-22-08; Am. Ord. 26-2011, passed 11-22-11; Am. Ord. 9-
2014, passed 4-22-14; Am. Ord. 22-2015, passed 12-22-15)
   (B)   Outside Corporate Limits.  From and after November 1, 1981, the rates
for water users outside the village shall be the same as the rates for users
inside the village, as set forth in division (A) above, plus an additional 10%.
(`94 Code, § 943.05)  (Ord. 29-81, passed 10-13-81)
§ 54.06  REMOTE READER, TAP AND PIT METER FEES.
   The tap fee for new residential installations shall be $500 each. Direct
reading pit meters shall be installed at a cost of $250. In addition to the
aforesaid fees, the customer may be assessed any additional costs resulting
from extraordinary circumstances, which shall include, but not be limited to,
earth boring, connections in excess of 50 feet, road resurfacing and
excavation, etc.
(`94 Code, § 943.06)  (Ord. 15-90, passed 12-13-90; Am. Ord. 20-07, passed 5-
22-07)
§ 54.07  NONRESIDENTIAL TAP FEES.
   (A)   From and after January 1, 1991, all tap fees for installations other
than residential ¾-inch service taps shall be as follows:
      (1)   $550 for a service tap up to four inches in diameter; and
      (2)   $750 for a service tap of six inches in diameter.
   (B)   In addition to the aforesaid fees, the customer may be assessed any
additional costs resulting from extraordinary circumstances, which shall
include, but not be limited to, earth boring, connections in excess of 50 feet,
road resurfacing and excavation, etc.
(`94 Code, § 943,07)  (Ord. 15-90, passed 12-13-90)
§ 54.08  MULTI-OCCUPIED AND MULTI-UNIT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Each separate unit of a multi-occupied facility located inside or
outside the village, whether commercial or residential, which receives village
water service, shall be liable for the charges as established by ordinance.
   (B)   Each unit of a multi-unit facility created or established after the
effective date of this section (Ordinance 23-81, passed July 29, 1981) shall be
individually metered and in all respects treated as a single entity under the
provisions of this chapter and other related ordinances. If any such unit is
not individually metered, water service shall not be provided to the unit. Each
unit of a multi-unit facility created or established prior to the effective
date of this section (Ordinance 23-81, passed July 29, 1981) shall be
individually metered and in all respects treated as a single entity under the
provisions of this chapter and other related ordinances, unless application for
exemption from this section is made to the Administrator and he or she finds
that such individual metering is either not feasible, economically impractical
or otherwise unreasonable. The owner of a mufti-unit facility not so exempted
from the individual metering requirement shall cause each unit to be plumbed to
accommodate the installation of a meter not later than three months after
receiving notice by the Administrator to do so. Upon the failure of such owner
to so install plumbing facilities that will adequately accommodate a metering
device for each separate unit, the Administrator shall terminate and suspend
the water service to the entire facility until the owner has complied with this
chapter and any other relevant ordinance.
   (C)   A multi-unit facility which is exempted from the metering requirements
set forth in division (B) hereof shall be billed as follows:
      (1)   Each unit shall be billed the minimum charge on a monthly basis.
      (2)   On a bimonthly basis, the owner of any such multi-unit facility
shall be billed for the actual charges for water service, as well as sewer
service, being allowed a credit of 2,000 gallons per unit per month against
such bill for the actual amount of water used, thus paying for the amount used
in excess of such minimum (2,000 gallons per unit per month) at the rate
established by ordinance for such excess amount.
(`94 Code, § 943.08)  (Ord. 23-81, passed 7-29-81)
§ 54.09  WATER PIPE SPECIFICATIONS.
   The water pipe between any installation or building in the village and the
curb box shall be of “K” copper and a minimum of ¾ of an inch for all new
building construction or major repair of an existing building or installation,
or water service pipe meeting A.S.T.M. D2737-81 (SDR-9), 200 PSI plastic,
copper tubing size.
(`94 Code, § 943.09)  (Ord. 11-94, passed 5-10-94)
§ 54.10  METERS AND REMOTE METERS.
   (A)   Every water service shall be equipped with a meter and a remote
reading meter, unless approved otherwise. All meters shall be the property of
the village. For the purpose of maintaining meters, the Village Administrator
or his or her authorized representative reserves the right to remove and then
replace or repair any meter at any time after reasonable notice.
   (B)   Each meter shall be sized according to the volume of water used by the
consumer. The Village Administrator has the right to size or change the size of
any meter according to water use records of the consumer. The customer is
responsible for providing facilities for a proper meter setting and for any
required piping changes.
   (C)   All new water services shall be metered with a remote reading meter.
Remote reading meters shall be installed on all existing water services unless
determined otherwise by the Village Administrator. Remote reading meters will
require periodic inspection by the Village Administrator. Failure of the
customer or consumer to comply with this rule may result in water service to
the unit being terminated.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 4-24-07)
§ 54.11  BACKFLOW CONTAMINATION PREVENTION.
   (A)   All new consumers of municipal water service commencing December 1,
2008 shall install backflow prevention devices as approved by the Village
Administrator and designed in accordance with the standards of the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency. The device shall be installed at the water
consumer's expense. The Village Administrator shall not permit water service
until the device has been inspected, tested and approved by the Village
Administrator.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of the Village Administrator and in accordance with
the rules and regulations of the Water Department, including the standards of
the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency incorporated therein dealing with the
backflow of contaminants, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water system, the Village Administrator will give
notice to the water consumer to install such an approved device immediately.
The water consumer shall, at his or her own expense, install such an approved
device at a location and in a manner approved by the Village Administrator and
shall have inspections and tests made of such approved devices as required by
the Village Administrator.
   (C)   No person, firm, or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary, or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of this Municipality may enter the supply or distributing system
of this Municipality unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply
and the method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by
the Village Administrator and by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the Village Administrator to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply where actual or potential hazards to the public water
supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of
public record and shall be repeated as often as the Village Administrator shall
deem necessary.
   (E)   The Village Administrator or his or her duly authorized representative
shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distributing system of this
Municipality for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems
thereof. On demand the owner, lessees, or occupants of any property so served
shall furnish to the Village Administrator any information which he or she may
request regarding the piping system or systems or water use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of
the Village Administrator, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this section.
   (F)   The Village Administrator is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service
to any property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this
section is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as he
or she may deem necessary to eliminate any danger or contamination of the
public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property shall
not be restored until such conditions shall have been eliminated or corrected
in compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 38-2008, passed 11-25-08)
ADMINISTRATIVE
§ 54.90  REQUEST FOR HEARING.
   (A)   A customer who receives a termination notice or other notice affecting
the receipt of water service provided by the Village Administrator is entitled
to contest the termination or other Administrator decision in a public hearing
before the Public Utilities Committee of Council. Such hearing must be
requested in writing through the Village Fiscal Officer. The date of such
hearing shall be within ten days of the request and the customer shall be
notified at least five days prior to the date and time of the hearing.
   (B)   At the hearing, the petitioner has the right to be represented by
legal counsel, may call witnesses to testify on his/her behalf, question
employees of the municipality, present evidence to support his/her claims, and
release any information on file regarding his/her account. The petitioner or
his or her legal counsel may make copies of any account records at the cost of
the copies.
   (C)   The municipality, represented by the Village Solicitor and the Village
Administrator, may call witnesses, provide evidence and documents in support of
its claim, and has the right to question any witnesses provided by the
petitioner.
   (D)   All testimony provided shall be sworn testimony provided under an
oath. The Fiscal Officer shall record all statements and other documents
provided as evidence and shall make the recording of this meeting available to
the petitioner as well as the municipality.
   (E)   The decision of the Public Utilities Committee shall be final. There
shall be no further appeal to the Court of Common Pleas as provided by R.C.
Chapter 2506.
   (F)   The decision of the Public Utilities Committee shall be enforced and
implemented by the Village Administrator.
   (G)   The decision of the Public Utilities Committee shall be based solely
on evidence and testimony presented at the hearing and shall state the rules
and evidence relied upon to reach that decision. A copy of that decision shall
be served upon the petitioner within three working days after the date of the
hearing.
(Ord. 15-07, passed 4-24-07)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100
for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during
or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues.
(`94 Code, § 943.99)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF- ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.061   Operation of low-speed and under-speed vehicles on village streets and
sidewalks
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
   
70.25   Authority and consideration for placement of devices
   
70.26   Conformity with state manual
   
70.27   Powers of Chief of Police; records
   
70.28   Reservation of Power to Council
   
70.29   Posting of signs and signals required
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.33   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.34   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.36   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.37   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.38   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. §
4511.07
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. §
4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title,
Chapter 95, and the penal laws of the municipality. For the purpose of this
Title and
Chapter 95, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
“alley” by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing. (R.C. § 4501.01(LL)) (Rev. 2014)
   CHILD DAY-CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
2022 S-11
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well- drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child day-care
center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to transport children from the child day-
care center or Type A Family Day-Care Home to a school if the van or bus does
not have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
§ 70.02  COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (C)(5) of this section, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact finds by proof
beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the offender was
fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)   In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section or a misdemeanor violation of division (B) of this section,
the court shall impose a class five suspension from the range specified in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been found guilty of an offense
under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any other substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other sanction imposed for
the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension as described in R.C.
§ 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving privileges to the offender
on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation of this section as set
forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any portion of the suspension
under a class one suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege
required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
§ 70.03  EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 70.04  EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.0
9, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.05  PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06  PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
§ 70.061  OPERATION OF LOW-SPEED AND UNDER-SPEED VEHICLES ON VILLAGE STREETS
AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      LOW-SPEED VEHICLE means a three- or four-wheeled motor vehicle with an
attainable speed in one mile on a paved level surface of more than 20 miles per
hour but not more than 25 miles per hour and with a gross vehicle weight rating
less than 3,000.
      UNDER-SPEED VEHICLE means a three- or four-wheeled vehicle, including a
vehicle commonly known as a golf cart, with an attainable speed on a paved
level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour and with a gross vehicle
weight rating less than 3,000 pounds.
   (B)   Permitted use on village streets and sidewalks. Subject to the
requirements of this section, the use of low-speed and under-speed vehicles
shall be permitted on village streets where the speed limit is 35 miles per
hour or less. In the event the operator's destination is only accessible from a
village street where the speed limit is greater than 35 miles per hour, then
the operator may use a village sidewalk provided the operator can operate at a
speed no greater than five miles per hour and pedestrians shall have the right-
of-way at all times.
   (C)   Title and registration required.
      (1)   Prior to the operation of a low-speed or under-speed vehicle on the
village streets, the vehicle must be titled in accordance with R.C. Chapter
4505 and registered in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503.
      (2)   Out of state low-speed and under-speed vehicles are not permitted
on village streets.
   (D)   Vehicle inspection.
      (1)   Before the owner of the low-speed or under-speed vehicle may obtain
a new or transferred title for the vehicle, the vehicle must pass an inspection
conducted by the Village of Plymouth Police Department. The inspection fee
shall be $10.
      (2)   At the time of the inspection, the owner of the vehicle must
present all of the following:
         (a)   A valid driver's license. If the owner of the vehicle is a
business, the business must require that all persons operating its vehicles
have a valid driver's license;
         (b)   Proof of insurance;
         (c)   Proof of ownership;
         (d)   Proof of the gross vehicle weight;
         (e)   Payment for the inspection fee.
   (E)   Compliance with traffic laws. All low-speed and under-speed vehicles
must be operated on village streets in accordance with all applicable state and
local traffic laws, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Anyone who operates a vehicle on the village streets must have a
valid driver's license.
      (2)   A vehicle must have the required license plates.
      (3)   A vehicle must have at least minimum liability insurance coverage
as required by the State of Ohio.
   (F)   Required equipment. A low-speed or under-speed vehicle, at a minimum,
must have all of the following:
      (1)   Brake lights (two lights);
      (2)   Head lights (two lights);
      (3)   Tail lights (two lights);
      (4)   Turn signals (two front, two rear);
      (5)   A horn;
      (6)   A rearview mirror;
      (7)   A windshield;
      (8)   Brakes and a brake system;
      (9)   A steering mechanism;
      (10)   A properly placed inspection sticker issued by the Plymouth Police
Department;
      (11)   Seat belts.
   (G)   Unsecured loads. Objects, such as coolers, grocery and hardware
purchases, and other similar objects, shall not be transported on a low-speed
vehicle or under-speed vehicle unless the objects are properly secured within a
flat bed or cargo area with the tailgate closed and/or with cords, straps,
ties, netting, or other appropriate restraints to secure the objects and
prevent them from falling onto the roadway.
   (H)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. 13-2020, passed 10-27-20)
§ 70.07  USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08  NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09  LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE
AT DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10  THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
2022 S-11
§ 70.11  OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.12  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of police in the
municipal corporation, township, or township, port authority, or joint police
district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition.
(R.C. § 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
§ 70.25  AUTHORITY AND CONSIDERATION FOR PLACEMENT OF DEVICES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall place and maintain traffic-control devices
upon any street or highway under municipal jurisdiction as are necessary to
effectuate the provisions of this Traffic Code, or to regulate, warn or guide
traffic, and such other traffic-control devices as such person shall deem
necessary for the proper control of traffic. Such devises may be placed on
utility poles.
   (B)   The Chief shall determine the location, timing and coordination of
such traffic-control devices upon the basis of an applicable engineering or
traffic investigation and shall consider the following:
      (1)   The maximum safety and protection of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic from physical injury or property damage;
      (2)   The existing and potential traffic movement, volume and conditions;
      (3)   The location and frequency of accidents, including studies of
remedial measures;
      (4)   The recommendations of the Fire Chief;
      (5)   The acceleration of transportation of persons and property by
vehicles so as to expedite travel and promote public safety;
      (6)   The convenience and welfare of the general public in parking,
standing, loading and unloading, and the use of the streets as affecting
business concerns and places of assembly; and
      (7)   Economy in the expenditure of money.
(`94 Code, § 305.01)  (Ord. 11-79, passed 9-18-79; Am. Ord. 4-2011, passed 1-
11-11)
§ 70.26  CONFORMITY WITH STATE MANUAL.
   All traffic-control devices placed pursuant to the provisions of this
Traffic Code shall conform to the Ohio Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices for Streets and Highways, as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
(`94 Code, § 305.02)  (Ord. 11-79, passed 9-18-79)
§ 70.27  POWERS OF CHIEF OF POLICE; RECORDS.
   (A)   Powers. The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to:
      (1)   Designate any street or highway as a through street or highway and
require that all vehicles stop or yield the right of way as may be required
before entering the same;
      (2)   Designate any intersection as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to such intersection;
      (3)   Designate any intersection as a yield intersection and require all
vehicles to yield the right-of-way as required;
      (4)   Designate any street as a one-way street and require that all
vehicles thereon be moved in one specific direction;
      (5)   Designate and mark lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless of the centerline of the roadway;
      (6)   Erect signs directing slow-moving traffic to use a designated lane
or allocating specified lanes to traffic moving in the same direction;
      (7)   Designate those portions of any street, where overtaking and
passing other traffic or driving to the left of the center or centerline of the
roadway would be especially hazardous, by appropriate signs or markings on the
street to indicate the beginning and end of such zones. Such zones may be
marked by an auxiliary yellow line placed parallel and to the right of the
normal centerline or offset marked lane line;
      (8)   Place markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections
and require that a specific course of direction be traveled by vehicles
proceeding in lanes by either permitting, prohibiting or requiring turns at
such intersections;
      (9)   Install traffic-control devices, signals and signs at any location
to regulate traffic;
      (10)   Establish safety zones, crosswalks, zones of quiet and play
streets;
      (11)   Close temporarily any streets or portions thereof to vehicular
traffic or restrict the use of any such streets or portions thereof, which are
in the process of construction, reconstruction or repair, or at any other times
when such closing or restriction is necessary for the public safety or
convenience.
      (12)   Determine the location of any necessary bus stops and taxicab
stands;
      (13)   Determine the location and limiting hours of truck loading zones;
      (14)   Designate dangerous railroad crossings and erect stop signs
thereat;
      (15)   Erect “No U Turn” signs at any location to prohibit a vehicle from
being turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction;
      (16)   Regulate or prohibit the stopping, standing and parking of
vehicles on streets, alleys or public property by erecting signs plainly
indicating the prohibitions, restrictions or limitations;
      (17)   Designate individual parking spaces by markings, which may either
be parallel or at a prescribed angle to the curb or edge of the roadway.
(`94 Code, § 305.03)  (Ord. 11-79, passed 9-18-79; Ord. 7-84, passed 4-10-89)
   (B)   Powers not limited. The powers of the Chief of Police shall not be
limited by the specific enumeration of subjects contained in this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 305.05)  (Ord. 11-79, passed 9-18-79)
   (C)   Records. The Chief of Police shall keep a record of all rules,
regulations and proceedings promulgated in connection with this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 305.06)  (Ord. 11-79, passed 9-18-79)
§ 70.28  RESERVATION OF POWER TO COUNCIL.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, Council may override any
decision of the Chief of Police and may assume any of the powers delegated to
the Chief, by a resolution adopted by a vote of a majority of the members duly
elected thereto. Upon the adoption of any such resolution, the same may be
changed only by an amending or repealing resolution adopted by Council.
(`94 Code, § 305.07)  (Ord. 11-79, passed 9-18-79)
§ 70.29  POSTING OF SIGNS AND SIGNALS REQUIRED.
   No provision of this chapter shall be effective until signs, signals,
markings or other devices giving notice of such local traffic regulations are
posted upon or at the entrance to the street or part thereof affected, as may
be most appropriate, so that in a proper position they are sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
(`94 Code, § 305.04)  (Ord. 11-79, passed 9-18-79)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30  OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
§ 70.31  SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right- of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane- use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade- crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 70.32  SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 70.33  AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 70.34  PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 70.35  UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 70.36  ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.37  UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.38  SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using a handheld electronic wireless communications device, as
defined in R.C. § 4511.204, except when utilizing any of the following:
               a.   The device’s speakerphone function;
               b.   A wireless technology standard for exchanging data over
short distances;
               c.   A “voice-operated or hands-free” device that allows the
person to use the electronic wireless communications device without the use of
either hand except to activate, deactivate, or initiate a feature or function;
               d.   Any device that is physically or electronically integrated
into the motor vehicle.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY means an entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D),
(E), or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE means a vehicle owned or operated by a
utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. §
2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.   In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.   If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Sentencing. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
CHAPTER 71:  LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
 
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01  DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.173, 4503.41,
4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a motor
vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail to file
annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these offenses as strict liability
offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which
there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 71.02  IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03  OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
2022 S-11
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04  OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 71.05  DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06  USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
2022 S-11
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.07  OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
§ 71.21  PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in- law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.22  LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through
2022 S-11
4507.39, inclusive, upon condition that such nonresident may be required at any
time or place to prove lawful possession or their right to operate such motor
vehicle, and to establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 71.23  EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.24  RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.25  SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.26  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.27  PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.28  DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under division
(A) of this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a
valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.29  OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.30  DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. §
4510.161
§ 71.31  DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.32  FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4506 that authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, or over-the-counter medication that, when taken in quantities
exceeding the recommended dosage, can result in impairment of judgment or
reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 71.46  USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 71.47  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)   Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
2022 S-11
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 71.48  PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986", 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
§ 71.49  PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.50  CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§  4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)   Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
§ 71.51  APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.52  EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.115   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.116   Occupying travel trailer while in motion
   
72.117   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.118   Prohibited operation or parking on sidewalks and curbs
   
72.119   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.120   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.121   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.122   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.123   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.124   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.125   Use of certain brakes prohibited
   
72.126   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.127   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.128   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.129   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.130   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.131   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.132   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001  LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right- hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two- way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 72.002  DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 72.003  VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.004  RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 72.005  PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 72.006  DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 72.007  PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.008  HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.009  ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.010  RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.011  SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
2022 S-11
§ 72.012  DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.013  RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.014  U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.015  STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 72.016  TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.017  HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030  RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
2022 S-11
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.031  RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.032  RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of- way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.033  STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
§ 72.034  RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.035  PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 72.036  RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 72.037  FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 72.038  PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 72.039  PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 72.040  RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 72.041  RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055  PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 72.056  PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 72.057  PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 72.058  PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.059  PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.060  INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty
2022 S-11
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the
offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle
or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 72.061  OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
2022 S-11
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.062  OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.063  LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075  STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.076  DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.077  VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.078  SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090  REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the state Board of Education, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped or stopping on the
roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending programs offered by
head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate the visual signals
or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading areas where the bus
is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when children or persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading at curbside or at
buildings when children attending programs offered by head start agencies are
loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and stop warning sign
shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by rule of the Board.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) above.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the State Board of Education, is painted the color and displays the
markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped with amber and red visual
signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77, irrespective of whether or
not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any time. The term does not
include a van owned and operated by a head start agency, irrespective of its
color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 72.091  VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.092  RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Department of Education of
the Department of Public Safety. No person, being the owner thereof, or having
the supervisory responsibility therefor, shall permit the operation of a
vehicle used for pupil transportation within this municipality in violation of
the rules of the Department of Education or the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Department of Education by rule
and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (F), (G))
§ 72.093  SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.094  SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
2022 S-11
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.095  LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.096  REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.097  SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.098  FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.099  OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.115  OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 72.116  OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   No person shall occupy any travel trailer or manufactured or mobile
home while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.117  DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.118  PROHIBITED OPERATION OR PARKING ON SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   No person shall operate or park any motor vehicle on any sidewalk or curb of
a street except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway or when
otherwise lawfully authorized.
(Ord. 3-2014, passed 2-11-14)
§ 72.119  OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.120  FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
§ 72.121  DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.122  PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
§ 72.123  TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or day-care center,
the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 72.124  OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966", 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) shall be subject to the penalty
set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
§ 72.125  USE OF CERTAIN BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated, any
vehicle which is equipped with a braking system, including, but not limited to,
a certain braking system referred to as “Jake brakes”, in such a manner that
the use of said brakes creates a public nuisance, including the creation of
excessive noise.
(Ord. 26-97, passed 8-12-97)
§ 72.126  OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.127  CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
§ 72.128  OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.129  CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.130  SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.131  TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on any street, highway, or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using a handheld
electronic wireless communications device to write, send, or read a text-based
communication.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner for emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a
law enforcement agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or
other similar emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle who uses a handheld
electronic wireless communications device in that manner in the course of the
person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications device
in that manner whose motor vehicle is in a stationary position and who is
outside a lane of travel;
      (4)   A person reading, selecting, or entering a name or telephone number
in a handheld electronic wireless communications device for the purpose of
making or receiving a telephone call;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on a device regarding the
operation or navigation of a motor vehicle; safety-related information,
including emergency, traffic, or weather alerts; or data used primarily by the
motor vehicle;
      (6)   A person receiving wireless messages via radio waves;
      (7)   A person using a device for navigation purposes;
      (8)   A person conducting wireless interpersonal communication with a
device that does not require manually entering letters, numbers, or symbols or
reading text messages, except to activate, deactivate, or initiate the device
or a feature or function of the device;
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person using a handheld electronic wireless communications
device in conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free device feature or
function of the vehicle.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on
any street or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (A) of this section has been or is
being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that nature or causing the arrest of or commencing a
prosecution of a person for a violation of that nature, and no law enforcement
officer shall view the interior or visually inspect any automobile being
operated on any street or highway for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of that nature has been or is being committed.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (E)   A prosecution for a violation of this section does not preclude a
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on the same conduct.
However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this
section and is also convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
4511.204 based on the same conduct, the two offenses are allied offenses of
similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE DEVICE. A device that allows the user to
vocally compose or send, or to listen to a text-based communication without the
use of either hand except to activate or deactivate a feature or function.
      WRITE, SEND, OR READ A TEXT-BASED COMMUNICATION. To manually write or
send, or read a text-based communication using an electronic wireless
communications device, including manually writing or sending, or reading
communications referred to as text messages, instant messages, or electronic
mail.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
§ 72.132  USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
CHAPTER 73:  MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing defined; prohibited on public highways
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.31   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01  DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) or (B) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to
all of the penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i)
through (G)(1)(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and
sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) or (B) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) or
(B) of this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20
years of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
five or more violations of that nature is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99(G) or
R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
or (B) of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction
imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   If the offender also is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court
imposes a jail term for the violation of division (B) of this section, the
court shall impose upon the offender an additional definite jail term pursuant
to R.C. § 2929.24(E).
      (4)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to § 130.99
(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing
the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or R.C. § 1547.11(A) or (B).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state, or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
§ 73.02  IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
   You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
   If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI, OVUAC,
or operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or
municipal law within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state
OVI, and, if you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased
penalties if you subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
   (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
   If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken
at your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. §
4511.191 or this section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-
state driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and
immediately forward it to the court in which the arrested person is to appear
on the charge. If the arrested person is not in possession of the person’s
license or permit or it is not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order
the person to surrender it to the law enforcement agency that employs the
officer within 24 hours after the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency
immediately shall forward the license or permit to the court in which the
person is to appear on the charge. Upon receipt of the license or permit, the
court shall retain it pending the arrested person’s initial appearance and any
action taken under R.C. § 4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
2022 S-11
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
§ 73.03  PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.04  DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.05  RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
§ 73.06  RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
§ 73.07  OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 73.08  IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.09  STREET RACING DEFINED; PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   As used in this section, STREET RACING means the operation of two or
more vehicles from a point side by side at accelerating speeds in a competitive
attempt to outdistance each other, or the operation of one or more vehicles
over a common selected course, from the same point to the same point, wherein
timing is made of the participating vehicles involving competitive
accelerations or speeds. Persons rendering assistance in any manner to such
competitive use of vehicles shall be equally charged
2022 S-11
as the participants. The operation of two or more vehicles side by side either
at speeds in excess of prima facie lawful speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21
(B)(1)(a) through (B)(9) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or
rapidly accelerating from a common starting point to a speed in excess of such
prima facie lawful speeds shall be prima facie evidence of street racing.
   (B)   No person shall participate in street racing upon any public road,
street, or highway in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to any other sanctions, the court
shall suspend the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privileges for not less than 30 days or more than three years. No judge shall
suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of an offender’s license, permit,
or privilege imposed under this division.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 73.10  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.   Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Department of Education in compliance with O.A.C. § 3301-35-08, a copy
of the school’s report for the parents of the school’s pupils certifying that
the school meets state minimum standards for nonchartered, nontax-supported
schools and presents evidence of this filing to the jurisdiction from which it
is requesting the establishment of a school zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any provision of division (A) through (I) of this
section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any other municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any provision of that section, and operated a motor vehicle
faster than 35 miles an hour in a business district of the municipality, faster
than 50 miles an hour in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35
miles an hour in a school zone during recess or while children are going to or
leaving school during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
§ 73.11  SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 73.12  EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 73.13  SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 73.14  PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 73.15  PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.16  OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.11.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30  FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 73.31  STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 73.32  ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 73.33  FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74:  EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights and emblem on slow-moving vehicles; lights and reflectors on
multi-wheel agricultural tractors or farm machinery
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Use of local street by heavy vehicles exceeding eight feet in height
and/or 20,000 G.V.W.
   
74.56   (Reserved)
   
74.57   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.61   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01  UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 74.02  BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
§ 74.03  LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 74.04  HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 74.05  TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 74.06  RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 74.07  SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 74.08  STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.09  OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10  RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 74.11  LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
2022 S-11
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.12  LIGHTS AND EMBLEM ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES; LIGHTS AND REFLECTORS ON
MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS OR FARM MACHINERY.
   (A)   All vehicles other than bicycles, including animal-drawn vehicles and
vehicles referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G), not specifically required to be
equipped with lamps or other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.10, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, shall, at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, be equipped with at least one lamp displaying a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle and
also shall be equipped with two lamps displaying red light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to 100 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful
lower beams of headlamps. Lamps and reflectors required by this section shall
meet standards adopted by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   All boat trailers, farm machinery and other machinery, including all
road construction machinery, upon a street or highway, except when being used
in actual construction and maintenance work in an area guarded by a flagperson,
or where flares are used, or when operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Director of Transportation, a city or
village engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Director and
the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09, which is designed for operation at a speed of
25 miles per hour or less, shall be operated at a speed not exceeding 25 miles
per hour, and shall display a triangular slow- moving vehicle emblem (SMV). The
emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance of not less than
500 feet to the rear. The Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and
specifications for the design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The
standards and specifications for SMV emblems referred to in this section shall
correlate with and, so far as possible, conform with those approved by the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers. A unit of farm machinery that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour may be operated on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles
per hour provided it is operated in accordance with this section. As used in
this division, “machinery” does not include any vehicle designed to be drawn by
an animal.
   (C)   The use of the SMV emblem shall be restricted to animal-drawn vehicles
and to the slow- moving vehicles specified in division (B) of this section
operating or traveling within the limits of the highway. Its use on slow-moving
vehicles being transported upon other types of vehicles or on any other type of
vehicle or stationary object on the highway is prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent or operate any boat trailer,
farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-moving vehicle in division
(B) of this section, except those units designed to be completely mounted on a
primary power unit, which is manufactured or assembled on or after April 1,
1966, unless the vehicle is equipped with a slow-moving vehicle emblem mounting
device as specified in division (B) of this section.
      (2)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays a
slow-moving vehicle emblem as specified in division (B) of this section and a
speed identification symbol that meets the specifications contained in the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005,
Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification Symbol (SIS).
   (E)   Any boat trailer, farm machinery or other machinery defined as a slow-
moving vehicle in division (B) of this section, in addition to the use of the
slow-moving vehicle emblem, and any unit of farm machinery that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, in
addition to the display of a speed identification symbol, may be equipped with
a red flashing light that shall be visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. When a double-faced light is
used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to the rear. In
addition to the lights described in this division, farm machinery and motor
vehicles escorting farm machinery may display a flashing, oscillating or
rotating amber light, as permitted by R.C. § 4513.17 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and also may display simultaneously flashing
turn signals or warning lights, as permitted by that section.
   (F)   (1)   Every animal-drawn vehicle upon a street or highway shall at all
times be equipped in one of the following ways:
         (a)   With a slow-moving vehicle emblem complying with division (B) of
this section;
         (b)   With alternate reflective material complying with rules adopted
under division (F)(2) below;
         (c)   With both a slow-moving vehicle emblem and alternate reflective
material as specified in division (F)(2) below.
      (2)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C.
Chapter 119, establishing standards and specifications for the position of
mounting of the alternate reflective material authorized by this division,
permit, as a minimum, the alternate reflective material to be black, gray, or
silver in color. The alternate reflective material shall be mounted on the
animal-drawn vehicle so as to be visible, at all times specified in R.C. §
4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps.
   (G)   (1)   Every unit of farm machinery that is designed by its
manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall display
a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that meets the
specifications contained in the American Society of Agricultural Engineers
Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment: Speed Identification
Symbol (SIS) when the unit is operated upon a street or highway, irrespective
of the speed at which the unit is operated on the street or highway. The speed
identification symbol shall indicate the maximum speed in miles per hour at
which the unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
The display of the speed identification symbol shall be in accordance with the
standard prescribed in this division.
      (2)   If an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and is towing, pulling, or
otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery, the unit of farm machinery shall
display a slow-moving vehicle emblem and a speed identification symbol that is
the same as the speed identification symbol that is displayed on the
agricultural tractor.
   (H)   When an agricultural tractor that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour is being operated on a street
or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour, the operator shall
possess some documentation published or provided by the manufacturer indicating
the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer designed the
agricultural tractor to operate.
   (I)   As used in this section, BOAT TRAILER means any vehicle designed and
used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina,
or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a
distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (J)   Lights and reflector requirements for multi-wheel agricultural
tractors or farm machinery.
      (1)   (a)   Every multi-wheel agricultural tractor whose model year was
2001 or earlier, when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the
times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, at a minimum shall be equipped with and display reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the
front and the rear; by amber reflectors, all visible to the front; and by red
reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   The lamps displaying amber light need not flash simultaneously
and need not flash in conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
         (c)   The lamps and reflectors required by division (J)(1)(a) of this
section and their placement shall meet standards and specifications contained
in rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119. The rules governing the amber lamps, amber reflectors, and red
reflectors and their placement shall correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2, respectively, of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (2)   Every unit of farm machinery whose model year was 2002 or later,
when being operated or traveling on a street or highway at the times specified
in R.C. §
      (3)   The lights and reflectors required by division (J)(1) of this
section are in addition to the slow-moving vehicle emblem and lights required
or permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or 4513.17, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, to be displayed on farm machinery being operated or
traveling on a street or highway.
      (4)   No person shall operate any unit of farm machinery on a street or
highway or cause any unit of farm machinery to travel on a street or highway in
violation of divisions (J)(1) or (J)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.11(I), 4513.111(E))
§ 74.13  SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high- intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 74.14  COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 74.15  TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 74.16  HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 74.17  LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 74.18  NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
This prohibition does not apply to emergency vehicles, road service vehicles
servicing or towing a disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles
actively collecting garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the
roadside, rural mail delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, highway maintenance
vehicles, funeral hearses, funeral escort vehicles, and similar equipment
operated by the Department or local authorities, which shall be equipped with
and display, when used on a street or highway for the special purpose
necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating or rotating amber light, but
shall not display a flashing, oscillating or rotating light of any other color,
nor to vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to have a flashing red light.
      (2)   When used on a street or highway, farm machinery and vehicles
escorting farm machinery may be equipped with and display a flashing,
oscillating or rotating amber light, and the prohibition contained in division
(C)(1) of this section does not apply to such machinery or vehicles. Farm
machinery may also display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.11 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E), or a school bus, no person shall operate, move, or park upon or
permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public street or highway any
vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying a flashing red or a
flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating or rotating red
light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating light; and except
a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal
and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety vehicle when on duty,
no person shall operate, move or park upon or permit to stand within the right-
of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with,
or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue or a flashing
combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating blue light, or
a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.19  STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.20  FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21  LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by a
nursery school, kindergarten, or day-care center, while transporting preschool
children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is equipped
with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar attached to the
top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation “caution – children”,
which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing lights in such a
manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind the vehicle. The
lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Director
of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.22  FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
2022 S-11
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 74.23  BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.24  BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25  MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
2022 S-11
§ 74.26  HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 74.27  MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
§ 74.28  REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 74.29  WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It does not conceal the vehicle identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device,
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if the
device meets both of the following:
         (a)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals.
         (b)   It is mounted not more than six inches below the upper edge of
the windshield and is outside the area swept by the vehicle’s windshield
wipers.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 74.30  SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31  REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS
OR REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
§ 74.32  DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33  INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
§ 74.34  REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35  DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36  REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.37  STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38  SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39  AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.50  PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a permit
issued by the Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may move the
vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any highway that
is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly within and
partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local authority
shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee or other
charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality. Permits may be issued for any period of time not to exceed
one year, as the local authority in its discretion determines advisable or for
the duration of any public construction project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.51  LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
2022 S-11
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.52  ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.53  TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.   
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.54  WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self- contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.55  REGULATING THE USE OF LOCAL STREETS BY HEAVY VEHICLES EXCEEDING EIGHT
FEET IN HEIGHT AND/OR 20,000 G.V.W.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle exceeding a gross weight of 20,000
G.V.W. and/or eight feet in height upon any street in the village other than a
state route, except those local streets designated as a truck route and marked
as such by appropriate traffic signs, and except when such operation is
necessary to load or unload property, to go to or from the usual place of
storage of such vehicle, or to perform any other legitimate business within the
village. Operators of heavy vehicles so deviating from either a state route or
designated truck route in the village shall confine such deviation to that
required to accomplish the purpose of the departure. The parking of any heavy
vehicle on any street for any purpose other than the necessary loading or
unloading of property is prohibited.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, state route or designated truck route
includes State Route 61, State Route 98, State Route 603, or designated routes
during special events only.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been found guilty
of a violation of this section, then such second and subsequent violation shall
be guilty of a fourth degree misdemeanor.
(Ord. 16-2016, passed 9-13-16)
§ 74.56  (RESERVED)
§ 74.57  MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor- semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) below.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.58  STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59  WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.60  LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61  WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which a
bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross
vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions.
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
CHAPTER 75:  BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Electric bicycles
   
75.04   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.05   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.06   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.07   Equipment of bicycles
   
75.08   Prohibited operation of under speed vehicles commonly known as golf
carts
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
   
75.36   Prohibited operation of certain vehicles near occupied dwellings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01  BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02  OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. §
4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to give an actual
demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a motorized
bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
§ 75.03  ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 75.04  RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 75.05  PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 75.06  RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.07  EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
§ 75.08  PROHIBITED OPERATION OF UNDER SPEED VEHICLES COMMONLY KNOWN AS GOLF
CARTS.
   (A)   The definition of under-speed vehicle as defined by R.C. § 4501.01(xx)
is adopted.
   (B)   The operation of any under-speed vehicle is prohibited on any street,
alley, or other public way within the village unless otherwise authorized and
licensed under the motor vehicle operation laws of the State of Ohio.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(Ord. 13-2016, passed 7-26-16)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 75.26  EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
§ 75.27  CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right- of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
§ 75.28  PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 75.29  LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
2022 S-11
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 75.30  MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31  ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 75.32  IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33  LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 75.34  REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose
vehicle is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a
resident of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519
shall comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
§ 75.35  CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all- purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
§ 75.36  PROHIBITED OPERATION OF CERTAIN VEHICLES NEAR OCCUPIED DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code shall be applied to the
operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, all-purpose vehicles and any
other vehicle, such as a riding mower which has been modified for a use other
than the purpose for which such vehicle was manufactured, except that no
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, all-purpose vehicle, or other vehicle as
described above, shall be operated on any private property within 300 feet of
any occupied dwelling house. This provision shall not apply to all-purpose
vehicles used for non-recreational activities such as lawn maintenance, snow
removal and the like.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, or imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 5-2003, passed 2-25-03)
CHAPTER 76:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.00   General parking prohibition
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Snow emergencies
   
76.13   Overnight parking of oversize vehicles
   
76.14   Outdoor parking and storage of recreational vehicles
   
76.15   Angle parking
   
76.16   Fire lanes
   
76.17   Enforcement; notice; fine
   
76.18   Waiver
   
76.19   Violations; separate offenses
§ 76.00  GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITION.
   No person shall park at any place where signs prohibiting stopping, standing
or parking, or when the curbing or street is painted yellow, or at any place in
excess of the maximum time limited by sign.
(Ord. 7-2014, passed 2-25-14)
§ 76.01  PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear
and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle shall be
left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such stopped
vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each direction upon
such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 76.02  CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle ;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 76.03  POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. §
4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such officer may
move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved or main
traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04  PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low- speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. §
4511.711, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
§ 76.05  PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free- moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Special parking locations and privileges for persons with disabilities
that limit or impair the ability to walk, also known as handicapped parking
spaces or disability parking spaces, shall be provided and designated by all
political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and instrumentalities
thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is provided, whether owned,
rented, or leased, and at all publicly owned parking garages. The locations
shall be designated through the posting of an elevated sign, whether
permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international symbol of
access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators, and ramps.
All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C. § 3781.111
(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance from the
ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five feet. If
a new sign or a replacement sign designating a special parking location is
posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed upon the
surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice that
states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in the
special designated parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle at
special parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
special clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages, or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or special license plates; or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a handicapped person and is displaying a parking card or special handicapped
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in a special marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)    No person shall stop, stand, or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to a special parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at a special clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage, or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or a temporary removable windshield
placard or special license plates, or when a motor vehicle is being operated by
or for the transport of a handicapped person, and is displaying a parking card
or special handicapped license plates, the motor vehicle is permitted to park
for a period of two hours in excess of the legal parking period permitted by
local authorities, except where local ordinances or police rules provide
otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in such a manner as to be clearly a
traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility, or parking garage where special
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the special parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the special
locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or movable
signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or special license
plates if the parking card or special license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      HANDICAPPED PERSON. Means any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf, or so severely handicapped as to
be unable to move without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose
mobility is restricted by a permanent cardiovascular, pulmonary, or other
handicapping condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
      SPECIAL LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Mean any license
plates or removable windshield placard or temporary removable windshield
placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41 or 4503.44, and also mean any substantially
equivalent license plates or removable windshield placard or temporary
removable windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or
sovereignty.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or special license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or special
handicapped license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person
neglected to display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)
(a)2. of this section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
§ 76.06  PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
2022 S-11
Cross-reference:
   Towing from private property, requirements, see §
95.01
§ 76.07  SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08  TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09  BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.10  PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11  REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 76.12  SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Snow emergencies on streets.
      (1)   In order to facilitate the cleaning of certain streets and to
expedite the free flow of vehicular traffic, no person shall park a motor
vehicle on the streets designated herein at such times as the United States
Weather Bureau records indicate that two inches of snow has fallen in the
village and that there is a prospect of a further snowfall. All cars parked
prior to the time weather conditions prohibit parking must be removed by the
owners or operators thereof. Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this
section shall be removed by order of the Chief of Police and shall subject the
owner or operator thereof to the penalties provided in §
70.99, as well as any impounding fees and storage costs.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of motor
vehicles to ascertain whether or not weather conditions require the removal of
their motor vehicles from the streets designated and to remove all cars parked
in violation of the provisions of this section or any other ordinance of the
village. While the village will make every effort to inform the public of the
existence of weather conditions requiring the removal of parked automobiles
from the streets designated herein, the owners and operators of motor vehicles
parked in these areas shall have full responsibility to determine existing
weather conditions and to remove parked automobiles if the weather conditions
are such as to require their removal under the provisions of this section.
      (3)   After the United States Weather Bureau records indicate that two
inches of snow has fallen and that there is a prospect of further snowfall, the
Chief of Police shall order the removal of all vehicles parked on the streets
designated herein which shall have not been removed by the owners or operators.
Such vehicles shall then be removed.
      (4)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section, with
respect to failure to remove parked motor vehicles when the weather conditions
described in this section require their removal, shall be deemed to be
illegally parked and shall be subject to the penalties provided. In addition,
when a car is towed to a motor vehicle pound, the car can be removed only upon
the payment of the towing and storage charges imposed.
      (5)   The Police Department shall use all available means of
disseminating information as to the existence of weather conditions requiring
removal of parked motor vehicles from the areas designated. Such notice shall
be disseminated through the radio, newspapers, television and all other
available media to the extent feasible. The dissemination of this information,
however, shall not relieve owners or operators of motor vehicles from the
responsibility of ascertaining the existence of weather conditions requiring
the removal of parked motor vehicles from the areas designated.
      (6)   The streets where parking is prohibited after two inches of snow
has fallen and there is a prospect of further snowfall, are the streets within
the business district, including the whole of any street wherein the boundary
of the business district is the centerline of such street.
(`94 Code, § 351.14)
   (B)   Snow emergencies on village parking lots.
      (1)   In order to facilitate the cleaning of village parking lots and to
expedite the free flow of vehicular traffic, no person shall park a motor
vehicle on a village parking lot at such tines as the United States Weather
Bureau records indicate that two inches of snow has fallen in the village and
that there is a prospect of a further snowfall. All cars parked prior to the
time weather conditions prohibit parking must be removed by the owners or
operators thereof. Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this section shall
be removed by order of the Chief of Police and shall subject the owner or
operator thereof to the penalties provided in §
70.99, as well as to any impounding fees and storage costs.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owners or operators of motor
vehicles to ascertain whether or not weather conditions require the removal of
their motor vehicles from the village parking lots and to remove all cars
parked in violation of the provisions of this section or any other ordinance of
the village. While the village will make every effort to inform the public of
the existence of weather conditions requiring the removal of parked automobiles
from the village parking lots, the owners and operators of motor vehicles
parked in these areas shall have full responsibility to determine existing
weather conditions and to remove parked automobiles if the weather conditions
are such as to require their removal under the provisions of this section.
      (3)   After the United States Weather Bureau records indicate that two
inches of snow has fallen and that there is a prospect of further snowfall, the
Chief of Police shall order the removal of all vehicles parked on village
parking lots which have not been removed by the owners or operators.
      (4)   In addition to penalties provided, when a car is towed to a motor
vehicle pound, the car can be recovered only upon the payment of the towing and
storage charges imposed.
      (5)   The Police Department shall use all available means of
disseminating information as to the existence of weather conditions requiring
removal of parked motor vehicles from the village parking lots. Such notice
shall be disseminated through the radio, newspapers, television and all other
available media to the extent feasible. The dissemination of this information,
however, shall not relieve owners or operators of motor vehicles from the
responsibility of ascertaining the existence of weather conditions requiring
the removal of parked motor vehicles from the village parking lots.
(`94 Code, § 351.15)  (Ord. 10-79, passed 9-18-79)
§ 76.13  OVERNIGHT PARKING OF OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Overnight parking. No person shall park any motor vehicle of more than
6.5 feet in width or more than 25 feet in length on any village street from
sunset to sunrise.
   (B)   Parking longer than 24 hours. No person shall leave parked at the same
location on the streets of this municipality a vehicle for a period of time in
excess of 24 hours. After a period of 24 hours, the Police Department shall
make reasonable attempts to notify the owner and request such vehicle be
removed. If such vehicle is not removed within an additional 24 hours, it shall
be towed to a storage yard at the owner’s expense.
(`94 Code, § 351.16)  (Ord. 10-79, passed 9-18-79; Am. Ord. 28-2014, passed 10-
28-14)
§ 76.14  OUTDOOR PARKING AND STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOAT. Every description f watercraft used or capable of being used as a
means of transportation on water. As used herein, BOAT includes a trailer
designed and used to transport the same, whether the watercraft is on the
trailer or not.
      CAMPING TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, constructed with
partial side walls which fold for towing and unfold to provide to temporary
living quarters for recreational camping or travel use and for a size or weight
not requiring an over dimension permit when towed on a highway.
      MOTOR HOME, MINI MOTOR HOME, or VAN CAMPER. A self-contained motor
vehicle, not used commercially, designed or permanently converted to provide
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel used, with direct walk
through access to the living quarters from the driving compartment.
      NONCOMMERCIAL TRAILER. A vehicle that is registered with the State of
Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles as a noncommercial trailer and weighs less than
3,000 pounds.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Every boat, camping trailer, motor home, mini
motor home, travel trailer, truck camper used primarily for recreational
purposes and not used commercially nor owned by a commercial business.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE as used herein includes the definitions of “boat,”
“camping trailer,” “motor home, mini motor home or van camper,” “noncommercial
trailer,” “travel trailer” and “truck camper” set forth in this section.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A trailer, not used commercially, designed to provide
living quarters, for recreational camping or travel use, and of a size or
weight not requiring an over dimension permit when towed on a highway.
      TRUCK CAMPER. A truck, not used commercially, when equipped with a
portable unit designed to be loaded onto the bed which is to provide temporary
living quarters for recreation, travel or camping use.
   (B)   Outdoor parking and storage on private property and exceptions. No
person shall park or store, or permit to be parked or stored, recreational
vehicles upon any lot or land designated within the boundaries of the R-1 or R-
2 Residential Districts except as provided in §
154.023(E) and as hereinafter provided. Any owner of recreational vehicles may
park or store such vehicles only on property where the owner resides in
accordance with the following conditions:
      (1)   Under no circumstances shall any recreational vehicle have fixed
connections to electricity, water, gas or sanitary sewer facilities, nor shall
such vehicle be used at any time, while parked or stored on any R-1 or R-
2 Residential District lot within the village, for living, storage or
housekeeping purposes.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other restrictions, recreational vehicles may
be stored or parked upon an improved surface constructed adjacent to the
driveway.
      (3)   All recreational vehicles shall be kept in good repair and carry a
current year's license plate and registration where required by law, unless
stored within a closed garage.
      (4)   No person shall make or cause to be made major repairs, alterations
or conversions of recreational vehicles unless such repair, alteration or
conversion is done in a completely enclosed garage. Repairs of a major type are
herein defined to include, but are not limited to, spray painting, body, spring
and frame repairs, radiator repair, major overhauling of engines requiring the
removing of engine cylinder head or crankcase pan or removing the motor and
conversion of any other type of motor. The conversion of any recreational
vehicle is expressly prohibited.
      (5)   No materials of any nature may be stored beneath such recreational
vehicle.
      (6)   When such recreational vehicle is parked or stored outside of a
garage in such approved or permitted location, the wheels shall be left on such
recreational vehicle or recreational vehicle conveyance so that it can be moved
in case of an emergency.
      (7)   No recreational vehicle shall be parked or stored unless it is
titled to, leased or used exclusively by one of the permanent occupants of the
residence where the recreational vehicle is located.
      (8)   There shall be no more than two recreational vehicles parked or
stored outside of any main residential structure at any one time.
      (9)   Visitors may park two recreational vehicles on the driveway area
provided it is sufficient in size, according to the provisions of this section,
for a period not longer than ten days in any consecutive 30-day period.
   (C)   MF Multiple Family Residential District. In the MF Multiple Family
Residential District, the outside storage and parking of such recreational
vehicles shall be permitted only in the area described as the off-street
parking facility for the main residential structure. Such recreational vehicles
must be owned or leased by an occupant of the main residential structure. All
other provisions of division (B) hereof shall be applicable to MF Multiple
Family Residential Districts.
(Ord. 29-97, passed 10-14-97; Am. Ord. 13-98, passed 5-12-98)
§ 76.15  ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Angular parking is hereby required in the following designated areas:
      (1)   On the east side of the public square between Portner Street and
Sandusky Street;
      (2)   On the north side of the public square between Sandusky Street and
the Elementary School;
      (3)   On the south side of the public square between Plymouth Street and
the Lutheran Church; and
      (4)   On the east side of the public square in the triangle between East
Main Street and Sandusky Street designated as a parking area.
   (B)   No person shall drive or park in reverse by backing any motor vehicle
into a designated angular parking space.
(`94 Code, § 351.17)  (Ord. 10-79, passed 9-18-79; Am. Ord. 6-2014, passed 2-
25-14)
§ 76.16  FIRE LANES.
   All streets, roads and alleys from the public square outward to the
corporation limits are hereby designated as fire lanes in which parking is
hereby prohibited at all times.
(`94 Code, § 351.18)  (Ord. 10-79, passed 9-18-79)
§ 76.17  ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE; FINE.
   (A)   Except as hereafter set forth, it shall be the duty of police officers
of the village, acting in accordance with instructions issued by the Mayor to
report:
      (1)   The nature, manner and place where the vehicle was parked in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The state license number of such vehicle;
      (3)   The time during which such vehicle was parked in violation of any
of the provisions of this chapter; and
      (4)   Any other facts, knowledge of which is necessary to a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending such violation.
   (B)   Each such police officer shall also attach to such vehicle a notice to
the owner or operator thereof that the vehicle has been parked in violation of
a provision of this chapter and instructing such owner or operator to report at
the Police Department in regard to such violation. Each such owner or operator,
upon finding a notice that his vehicle has been parked in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, shall within seven days from the time such notice
was attached to the vehicle, pay to the Chief of Police or his authorized
representative, as a penalty for and in full satisfaction of such violation,
the sum of $10. If the notice is not presented and the penalty paid to the
Chief of Police or his authorized representative within seven days from the
time the notice was attached to such vehicle, the penalty shall be the sum of
$15 and shall be paid to the Chief of Police or his authorized representative
as a penalty  for and in full satisfaction of such violation. Furthermore, the
failure of such owner or operator to make payment to the Chief of Police or his
authorized representative within such seven-day period shall render the owner
or operator subject to the penalty provided in §
70.99 for violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 7-96, passed 4-9-96; Am. Ord. 1-2000, passed 2-8-00)
§ 76.18  WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearances.
(`94 Code, § 351.19)  (Ord. 10-79, passed 9-18-79)
§ 76.19  VIOLATIONS; SEPARATE OFFENSES.
   Unless other expressly provided, a separate and distinct offense shall be
deemed committed each additional hour that a vehicle is parked in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 351.20)  (Ord. 10-79, passed 9-18-79)
2022 S-11
CHAPTER 77:  AUTOMATED SPEED ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
Section
   
77.01   Definitions
   
77.02   General
   
77.03   Offense
   
77.04   Notice of liability
   
77.05   Civil penalties
   
77.06   Collection of civil penalty
   
77.07   Administrative appeal hearing process
   
77.08   Calibration
   
77.09   Signs
§ 77.01  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, words and phrases are defined as follows:
   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM.  A program intended to reduce
speeding and other designated traffic law violations using an automated traffic
law enforcement system.
   AUTOMATED TRAFFIC ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM.  A system with one or more sensors
working in conjunction with a traffic law photo-monitoring device to produce
recorded images of motor vehicles traveling at a prohibited rate of speed or
violating other traffic laws designated by this chapter.
   HEARING OFFICER.  The independent third party hearing officer appointed by
the Mayor and who is an active, registered attorney in good standing with the
Ohio Supreme Court, other than a person who is employed by a law enforcement
agency as defined in R.C. § 109.573.  The Hearing Officer is appointed to
conduct administrative hearings on violations recorded by traffic law photo-
monitoring devices.
   VEHICLE OWNER.  A registered owner as such term is hereafter defined in this
section.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Has the same definition as in §
70.01, as amended from time to time.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE and PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.  Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4511.01.
   MOTOR VEHICLE LEASING DEALER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4517.01.
   MOTOR VEHICLE RENTING DEALER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4517.01.
   RECORDED IMAGES.  Images recorded by an automated traffic law enforcement
system photo-monitoring device that show, on at least one image or on a portion
of the videotape, the front or rear of a motor vehicle and the letters and
numerals on the front or rear license plate of the vehicle, on any of the
following:
      (1)   Two or more photographs;
      (2)   Two or more microphotographs;
      (3)   Two or more electronic images;
      (4)   Two or more digital images; or
      (5)   Videotape or video recording.
   DATE OF ISSUANCE OF NOTICE OF LIABILITY.  The date printed on the notice of
liability immediately prior to its mailing.
   TRAFFIC LAW PHOTO-MONITORING DEVICE.  An electronic system consisting of
photographic, video or electronic camera and a means of sensing the presence of
a motor vehicle that automatically produces recorded images.
   TRAFFIC LAW VIOLATION.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.12 based on the failure to comply with
R.C. § 4511.13 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance that occurs at
an intersection due to failure to obey a traffic signal;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or 4511.211 or §
73.10 due to failure to observe the applicable speed limit;
      (3)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.213 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   REGISTERED OWNER.
      (1)   Any person or entity identified by the Ohio Bureau of Motor
Vehicles or any other state motor vehicle registration bureau, department, or
office as the owner of a motor vehicle;
      (2)   The lessee of a motor vehicle under a lease of six months or
longer;
      (3)   The renter of a motor vehicle pursuant to a written rental
agreement with a motor vehicle renting dealer.
   SYSTEM LOCATION.  The approach to an intersection or area of roadway toward
which a traffic law photo-monitoring device is directed and is in operation.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  A sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy
marshal, police officer of a police department of any municipal corporation,
police constable of any township, or police officer of a township or joint
police district, who is employed on a permanent, full-time basis by the Village
Police Department.
   TICKET or NOTICE OF LIABILITY.  Any traffic ticket, citation, summons, or
other ticket issued in response to an alleged traffic law violation detected by
a traffic law photo monitoring device, that represents a civil violation.
   CHAPTER.  Refers to Chapter 7 of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of
Plymouth and includes and encompasses each of the codified ordinances set forth
therein as amended.
(Ord. 12-2016, passed 7-12-16)
§ 77.02  GENERAL.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the traffic code ordinances of
the village, the village hereby adopts a civil automated traffic law
enforcement program for automated traffic law enforcement system violations as
outlined in this chapter. This program imposes monetary liability on the
registered owner of a vehicle for failure of an operator thereof to strictly
comply with the posted speed limit in school zones or streets or highways
within the village or to strictly comply with the requirement of R.C. §
4511.213 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when approaching a
stationary public safety vehicle or emergency vehicle within the village.  The
imposition of liability under this chapter shall not be deemed a conviction for
any purpose and shall not be made part of the operating record of any person
upon whom the liability is imposed.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for administering the
automated traffic law enforcement program. Specifically, the Chief of Police
shall be empowered to deploy and operate the automated traffic law enforcement
system within the village.
   (C)   Any citation for an automated traffic law system violation pursuant to
this section, known as a "notice of liability" shall:
      (1)   Be approved by a law enforcement officer of the Village Police
Department who shall (a) examine evidence of an alleged violation recorded by
the automated traffic law enforcement system to determine whether an infraction
has occurred, and (b) determine whether the recorded images in connection with
an alleged violation shows an infraction, contains a date and time of the
alleged violation, shows the letters and numerals on the vehicle's license
plate and shows the state in which the license plate was issued.
      (2)   Be forwarded by first-class mail or personal service to the
registered owner's address as given on the state's motor vehicle registration.
      (3)   Clearly state the manner in which the violation may be appealed.
      (4)   Comply with any valid state law requirement that a local authority
shall use a traffic law photo-monitoring device to detect and enforce traffic
law violations only if a law enforcement officer is present at the location of
the device at all times during the operation of the device.
(Ord. 12-2016, passed 7-12-16)
§ 77.03  OFFENSE.
   (A)   The vehicle owner shall be liable for a penalty imposed pursuant to
this chapter if such vehicle is operated at a speed in excess of those set
forth in §
73.10 or R.C. § 4511.21 as each may be amended from time to time, provided
that:
      (1)   For a system location that is located within a school zone or
within the boundaries of a state or local park or recreation area, the village
shall not issue a violation as described in this chapter using an automated
traffic law enforcement system unless the vehicle involved in the violation is
traveling at least six miles per hour over the posted speed limit.
      (2)   For a system location that is located within any other location
than those described in division (A)(1) of this section, the village shall not
issue a violation as described in this chapter using an automated traffic law
enforcement system unless the vehicle involved in the violation is traveling at
least ten miles per hour over the posted speed limit.
   (B)   A person or entity who receives a notice of liability or ticket for a
civil violation shall elect to do one of the following:
      (1)   In accordance with the instructions on the notice of liability, pay
the civil penalty, thereby failing to contest liability and waiving the
opportunity to contest the violation;
      (2)   (a)   Within 30 days after receipt of the notice of liability,
provide the Village Police Department with either of the following affidavits:
            1.   An affidavit executed by the registered owner stating that
another person was operating the vehicle of the registered owner at the time of
the violation, identifying that person as a designated party who may be held
liable for the violation, and containing at a minimum the name and address of
the designated party; or
            2.   An affidavit by the vehicle owner stating that at the time of
the violation, the motor vehicle or the license plates of the motor vehicle
involved were stolen or were in the care, custody, and control of some person
who did not have the owner's permission to use the motor vehicle, or that the
motor vehicle or license plates of the motor vehicle were stolen before the
violation occurred and were not under the control or possession of the owner at
the time of the violation. In order to demonstrate that the motor vehicle or
license plates were stolen before the violation occurred and were not under the
control or possession of the vehicle owner at the time of the violation, the
vehicle owner must submit proof that a police report, incident report/general
offense report about the stolen motor vehicle or license plates was filed prior
to the violation or within 48 hours after the violation occurred.
         (b)   A registered owner is not responsible for a traffic law
violation if, within 30 days after the date of mailing of the notice of
liability, the registered owner furnishes an affidavit specified in division
(B)(2)(a)1. or 2. to the village in a form established by the village and the
following conditions are met:
            1.   If the registered owner submits an affidavit as specified in
division (B)(2)(a)1. of this section, the designated party either accepts
liability for the violation by paying the civil penalty or failing to request
an administrative hearing within 30 days or is determined liable in an
administrative hearing;
            2.   If the registered owner submits an affidavit as specified in
division (B)(2)(a)2. of this section, the affidavit is supported by a stolen
vehicle or stolen license plate report as required in that division;
            3.   If the registered owner is a motor vehicle leasing dealer or a
motor vehicle renting dealer, notify the Village Police Department of the name
and address of the lessee or renter of the motor vehicle at the time of the
traffic law violation. A motor vehicle leasing dealer or motor vehicle renting
dealer who receives a ticket for an alleged traffic law violation detected by a
traffic law photo-monitoring device is not liable for a ticket issued for a
motor vehicle that was in the care, custody, or control of a lessee or renter
at the time of the alleged violation. The dealer shall not pay such a ticket or
notice of liability and subsequently attempt to collect a fee or assess the
lessee or renter a charge for any payment of such a ticket made on behalf of
the lessee or renter.
            4.   If the vehicle involved in the traffic law violation is a
commercial motor vehicle and the notice of liability is issued to a corporate
entity, provide to the Village Police Department an affidavit, sworn to or
affirmed by an agent of the corporate entity, that provides the name and
address of the employee who was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation and who is the designated party.
            5.   Contest the ticket by filing a written request for an
administrative hearing to review the notice of liability. The person or entity
shall file the written request not later than 30 days after receipt of the
notice of liability. The failure to request a hearing within this time period
constitutes a waiver of the right to contest the violation and notice of
liability, and is deemed to constitute an admission of liability and waiver of
the opportunity to contest the violation.
   (C)   In the event that the village and/or the Village Police Department
receives from a registered owner an affidavit described in division (B)(2)(a)1.
or 2. of this section or a notice described in division (B)(2)(b)3. or 4. of
this section, the village may proceed to send a notice of liability that
conforms with §
77.04 to the designated party. The village shall send the notice of liability
to the designated party not later than 21 days after receipt of the affidavit
or notification.
   (D)   A certified copy of the notice of liability alleging the violation of
this chapter occurred, sworn to or affirmed by a law enforcement officer of the
Village Police Department, with the recorded images produced by an automated
traffic law enforcement system photographic system shall be prima facie
evidence of the facts contained therein and shall be admissible in a proceeding
alleging a violation under this chapter.
   (E)   Exception for emergency or public safety vehicles: The provisions of
this chapter shall not apply to the registered owner of emergency vehicles or
public safety vehicles when those vehicles are responding to emergency or call
for emergency service.
(Ord. 12-2016, passed 7-12-16)
§ 77.04  NOTICE OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The notice of liability shall be processed by the village or its
designee and shall be served by ordinary mail to the owner's address as given
on the motor vehicle registration from the Bureau of Motor Vehicles, or its
equivalent, of the state in which it is registered. The notice of liability
shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the registered owner;
      (2)   The letters and numerals appearing on the license plate issued to
the motor vehicle;
      (3)   The traffic law violation charged;
      (4)   The system location;
      (5)   The date and time of the violation;
      (6)   A copy of the recorded image(s);
      (7)   The amount of the civil penalty imposed and the date by which the
civil penalty should be paid and the address to which payment is to be sent;
      (8)   Information advising the person alleged to be liable of the options
as provided in §
77.03(B);
      (9)   Information advising the person or entity alleged to be liable of
the options prescribed in R.C. § 4511.098 and §§
77.03 and
77.07, specifically to include the time, place and manner in which an
administrative appeal may be initiated and the procedure for disclaiming
liability by submitting an affidavit as prescribed in any of those sections;
      (10)   The date of issuance of the notice of liability;
      (11)   The name and badge number of the law enforcement officer who was
present at the system location at the time of the violation;
      (12)   A statement signed by a law enforcement officer employed by the
village indicating that, based on an inspection of recorded images, the motor
vehicle was involved in a traffic law violation, and a statement indicating
that the recorded images are prima facie evidence of that traffic law
violation, both of which may be signed electronically;
      (13)   A warning that failure to exercise one of the options prescribed
in R.C. § 4511.098 or §§
77.03 or
77.07 is deemed to be an admission of liability and waiver of the opportunity
to contest the violation.
   (B)   A notice of liability issued under this chapter shall be mailed no
later than 30 calendar days after the alleged violation.
   (C)   Except as provided under §
77.03(B), the village or its designee may not mail a notice of liability to a
person who is not the registered owner.
   (D)   It is prima facie evidence that the person registered as the owner of
the vehicle with the Ohio Bureau of Motor Vehicles (or with any other
applicable state vehicle registration office) was operating the vehicle at the
time of the offense set out in §
77.03(A).  This evidence and presumption may be rebutted in accordance with §
77.03(B) or 77.07.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the liability of
an owner of a vehicle for any violation of §
77.03.
(Ord. 12-2016, passed 7-12-16)
§ 77.05  CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Unless the driver of the motor vehicle received a citation from a
police officer at the time of the violation, or unless the exception or defense
to liability set forth in §
77.03(D) applies, the registered owner or designated party for the motor
vehicle is subject to a civil penalty if the motor vehicle is recorded by an
automated traffic law enforcement system while being operated in violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   The civil penalty under this chapter shall be in accordance with the
following schedule:
      (1)   (a)   Penalties for failure to observe the applicable speed limit
occurring within any other location than those described in §
77.03(A)(1) shall be assessed as follows, according to the degree of the
traffic law violation:
 
Miles Per Hour Over Speed Amount of Penalty Limit
10-19                     $100.00
20-29                     $125.00
30 or more                $150.00
 
         (b)   Within a school zone or within the boundaries of a state or
local park or recreation area:
 
Miles Per Hour Over Speed Amount of Penalty Limit
6-19                      $125.00
20-29                     $150.00
30 or more                $175.00
 
      (2)   The penalty for a violation of R.C. § 4511.213 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance shall be $100. If the violation occurs when the
motor vehicle is traveling at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour over the
posted speed limit, the penalty shall be increased to $150.
      (3)   If the civil penalty is paid after 30 calendar days, but within 45
calendar days after date of issuance of the notice of liability, an additional
late fee of $25 shall be added to the amount of the civil penalty;
      (4)   If the civil penalty is paid after 45 calendar days of the date of
issuance of the notice of liability, an additional late fee of $80 shall be
added to the amount of the civil penalty.
      (5)   In addition to any civil penalty and any additional late fee, any
and all costs or expenses incurred by the village in connection with the
placement of a traffic law violation ticket or notice of liability issued
hereunder with outside counsel for litigation or with a collection agency
thereof shall be assessed against the person or entity found to be liable
hereunder.
      (6)   In addition to any civil penalty and any additional late fee, any
and all costs or expenses incurred by the village in collecting any amount owed
hereunder shall be assessed against the person or entity found to be liable
hereunder.
      (7)   The failure to respond to a notice of liability in a timely fashion
as set forth in this chapter shall constitute a waiver of the right to contest
liability for the violation under §
77.03.
      (8)   Persons who choose to pay the civil penalty without appearing
before a hearing examiner as set forth in §
77.07 may do so in the manner indicated on the notice of liability.
      (9)   A violation for which a civil penalty is imposed under this chapter
is not a moving violation for the purpose of assessing points under R.C. §
4507.021 for minor misdemeanor moving traffic offenses and may not be recorded
on the driving record of the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and shall
not be reported to Bureau of Motor Vehicles, nor shall such a violation be
recorded on the driving record of the owner or operator of the vehicle involved
in the violation.
(Ord. 12-2016, passed 7-12-16)
§ 77.06  COLLECTION OF CIVIL PENALTY.
   If the civil penalty is not paid, the civil penalty imposed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be collectable, together with any placement
fee, interest and penalties thereon, in any manner authorized by law including
but not limited to administrative hearings or civil suit. In addition to any
other fees or charges authorized by this chapter in relation to the commission
of a violation of this chapter, a person liable for the penalties established
under this chapter will be assessed fees under this chapter in an amount equal
to the costs of collection of the debt and/or the costs of placement with any
such citation or case with outside counsel hired or retained by the village for
litigation or collection of any citation or debt hereunder, as set forth in §
77.05. Failure to pay will cause the village to retain the services of a
collection agency to pursue the debt. When outstanding fines are listed with an
outside collection agency, a minimum cost of 35% shall be added to the combined
totals of all outstanding fines, fees, interest and penalties.
(Ord. 12-2016, passed 7-12-16)
§ 77.07  ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL HEARING PROCESS.
   (A)   A registered owner or designated party may contest the notice of
liability by filing a written request for an administrative hearing to review
the notice of liability with the Village Police Department or its designee. A
written notice of request for an administrative hearing must be received by the
Village Police Department, or its designee, within 30 calendar days after the
date of issuance of the notice of liability. The failure to give notice of
request for an administrative hearing within this time period shall constitute
a waiver of the right to contest the notice of liability. A hearing officer
shall conduct administrative hearings. Administrative hearings shall be held
within 45 business days of the date that timely request for a hearing is
received by the village or its designee, but not sooner than 21 days from
receipt by the village of such request; this time may be extended upon a
reasonable written request for additional time or upon reasonable notification
of the hearing officer or village with notice to all parties. The
administrative hearing shall be open to the public, and a hearing schedule
shall be posted in a conspicuous place near the entrance to the hearing room
that shall identify, by alleged violator, the administrative hearings scheduled
for that day and the time of each hearing. More than one hearing may be
scheduled for the same time to allow for such things as nonappearances or
admissions of liability.
      (1)   The Hearing Officer shall determine whether a preponderance of
evidence establishes that a traffic law violation occurred and the person
requesting the administrative hearing is the party operating the vehicle at the
time of the violation. The hearing officer shall advise the person or entity on
the day of the hearing of the Hearing Officer's decision.
         (a)   If the hearing officer finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that the alleged traffic law violation did in fact occur and that the person or
entity named in the notice of liability is the person who was operating the
vehicle at the time of the violation, the hearing officer shall issue a written
decision imposing liability for the violation upon the individual or entity and
submit it to the village or its designee and the person or entity named in the
notice of liability.
         (b)   If the hearing officer finds by a preponderance of the evidence
that the alleged traffic law violation did not occur or did in fact occur but
the person or entity named in the notice of liability is not the person who was
operating the vehicle at the time of the violation, the hearing officer shall
issue a written decision finding that the individual or entity is not liable
for the violation and submit it to the village or its designee and the person
or entity named in the notice of liability.
         (c)   If the person who requested the administrative hearing or a
representative of the entity that requested the hearing fails to appear at the
hearing, the hearing officer shall determine that the person or entity is
liable for the violation. In such a case, the hearing officer shall issue a
written decision imposing liability for the violation upon the individual or
entity and submit it to the local authority or its designee and the person or
entity named in the notice of liability.
   (B)   If the registered owner or designated party chooses to contest the
notice of liability, the Hearing Officer may consider any of the following as
an affirmative defense to a violation upon the defense being established by a
preponderance of the evidence by the registered owner or responsible party:
      (1)   That the motor vehicle or license plates of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred and were not under control or possession
of the registered owner at the time of the traffic law violation. In order to
demonstrate that the motor vehicle or license plates were stolen before the
traffic law violation occurred and were not under the control or possession of
the registered owner at the time of the traffic law violation, the vehicle
owner must submit proof that a police report, incident report/general offense
report about the stolen motor vehicle or license plates was filed prior to the
violation or within 48 hours after the violation occurred.
      (2)   That the motor vehicle was under the custody and/or control of
another person at the time of the violation. In order to establish this, the
owner or responsible person must provide the name and address of the person who
had custody and/or control of the motor vehicle at the time of the traffic law
violation.
      (3)   That this section is unenforceable because the recorded image is
not legible enough to determine the information needed.
      (4)   Evidence, other than that adduced pursuant to division (B)(1) of
this section, that the registered owner or person named in the notice of
liability was not operating the motor vehicle at the time of the violation. To
satisfy the evidentiary burden under this division, the owner or person named
in the notice of liability shall provide to the Hearing Officer evidence
showing the identity of the person who was operating the motor vehicle at the
time of the traffic law violation, including, but not limited to, the
operator's name and current address, and any other evidence the Hearing Officer
deems pertinent.
      (5)   That the motor vehicle operator was yielding the right-of-way to an
emergency vehicle in accordance with Ohio law, or to a funeral procession.
      (6)   That the vehicle passed through the intersection in order to yield
the right-of-way to either of the following: (i) a public safety vehicle or
coroner's vehicle in accordance with R.C. § 4511.45; or (ii) a funeral
procession in accordance with R.C. § 4511.451.
      (7)   At the time and place of the alleged traffic law violation, the
traffic control signal was not operating properly or the traffic law photo-
monitoring device was not in proper position and the recorded image is not of
sufficient legibility to enable an accurate determination of the information
necessary to impose liability.
      (8)   That under consideration of the totality of the circumstances the
person or entity named in the notice of liability is not liable.
   (C)   If the Hearing Officer finds that the person or entity named in the
notice of liability was not operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation or receives evidence under division (B)(4) of this section
identifying the designated party, the Hearing Officer shall provide it to the
village or its designee within five calendar days, along with a copy of any
evidence substantiating who was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
traffic law violation.
      (1)   Upon receipt of evidence of the responsible party pursuant to this
section or pursuant to §
77.03(B), the village or its designee may issue a notice of liability, with the
name and address of the designated party and the information required by §
77.04, to the person that the evidence indicates was operating the motor
vehicle at the time of the violation.
      (2)   A notice of liability issued under this division (C), shall be sent
by the village or its designee by ordinary mail no later than 21 business days
after the receipt of the evidence from the Hearing Officer. The content of a
notice of liability issued under this division shall be the same as set forth
in §
77.04(A).
      (3)   If a designated party who was issued a notice of liability under
this division (C) hereof contests the ticket by filing a written request for an
administrative hearing to review the notice of liability not later than 30 days
after receipt of the notice of liability, the village shall require the
registered owner of the motor vehicle also to attend the hearing. If at the
hearing involving the designated party the Hearing Officer cannot determine the
identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of the violation, the
registered owner is liable for the violation. The Hearing Officer then shall
issue a written decision imposing liability for the violation on the registered
owner and submit it to the local authority or its designee and to the
registered owner. If the designated party also is a registered owner of the
vehicle, liability for the violation shall follow the order of registered
owners as listed on the title to the vehicle.
   (D)   A person who is named in a notice of liability for a civil violation
may assert a testimonial privilege in accordance with division (D) of R.C. §
2317.02.
   (E)   A person or entity may appeal a written decision rendered by a Hearing
Officer under this section to the municipal court or county court with
jurisdiction over the location where the violation occurred.
(Ord. 12-2016, passed 7-12-16)
§ 77.08  CALIBRATION.
   The manufacturer or operator of the automated traffic law enforcement system
used by the village, or an independent calibration laboratory, shall calibrate
said device before it is used by the village. The manufacturer or operator of
the automated traffic law enforcement system shall certify to the accuracy of
each traffic law photo-monitoring device in accordance with applicable federal
law, if any. For each traffic law photo-monitoring device that is considered
mobile or portable, meaning it is attached to a trailer, vehicle, or other
apparatus that is easily transported to different system locations, the village
shall perform or cause to be performed a system self-test and calibration
verification of said traffic law photo-monitoring device in accordance with the
manufacturer's specifications prior to its use at each system location. For
each device that is considered mobile or portable, meaning it is attached to a
trailer, vehicle or other apparatus that is easily transported to different
system locations, the Village Police Department or its designee shall clearly
and conspicuously mark on the outside of the trailer, vehicle, or apparatus
that contains the traffic law photo-monitoring device that the device is the
property or under the control of the village.
(Ord. 12-2016, passed 7-12-16)
§ 77.09  SIGNS.
   The Village Service Department shall erect signs on every highway, which is
not a freeway, that is part of the state highway system and that enters into
the village and at each fixed system location. The signs shall inform inbound
traffic that the village utilizes traffic law photo-monitoring devices to
enforce traffic laws. The signs shall be erected within the first 300 feet of
the boundary of the village and any fixed system location or, if the signs
cannot be located within the first 300 feet of the boundary of the village or a
fixed system location, as close to that distance as possible, in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.094.
(Ord. 12-2016, passed 7-12-16)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
94.   INTOXICATING LIQUORS
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
98.   TREES
      
99.   UNCLAIMED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
Animals Running at Large
   
90.01   Dogs or other animals running at large; nuisance, dangerous or vicious
dogs; hearings
   
90.02   Confining animal found at large; publication of notice; lien
   
90.03   Unavoidable escapes
   
90.04   Fees
   
90.05   Rabies quarantine orders of Mayor
   
90.06   Interfering with enforcement of quarantine orders
   
90.07   Reserved
   
90.08   Dogs may be killed for certain acts
   
90.09   Nuisance conditions prohibited
   
90.10   Animal bites; reports and quarantine
Offenses Relating to Animals
   
90.20   Abandoning animals
   
90.21   Injuring animals
   
90.22   Poisoning animals
   
90.23   Cruelty to animals; cruelty to companion animals
   
90.24   Animal fights
   
90.25   Trapshooting
   
90.26   Loud dog
   
90.27   Dog tags
   
90.28   Pit bull terriers or other vicious dogs
   
90.29   Failure to register dog or dog kennel
   
90.30   Hindering the capture of unregistered dog
   
90.31   Unlawful tag
   
90.32   Rights of blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person,
or trainer with assistance dog
   
90.33   Retail sale and transportation of dogs
   
90.34   Coloring rabbits or baby poultry; regulation of sale and display
   
90.35   Jacklighting prohibited
   
90.36   Hunting prohibited
   
90.37   Restrictions on dog ownership for certain convicted felons
   
90.38   Keeping of animals
   
90.39   Sexual conduct with an animal
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting police dog, horse or assistance dog, see §
136.15
   Nuisances, see §
95.05
Statutory reference:
   Hunting and fishing regulations, see R.C. Chapter 1533
   Law enforcement canine registration, see R.C. § 955.012
   Nuisance wild animal trapping, see O.A.C. § 1501:31-15-03
   Rabies: report of dog bite, confinement of animal, report of suspected rabid
animal, see O.A.C. §§ 3701-3-28 through 3701-3-30
ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.01  DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; NUISANCE, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS
DOGS; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Animals running at large.
      (1)   No person, who is the owner or keeper of horses, mules, cattle,
bison, sheep, goats, swine, llamas, alpacas, or poultry, shall permit them to
run at large in the public road, highway, street, lane, or alley, or upon
unenclosed land, or cause the animals to be herded, kept, or detained for the
purpose of grazing on premises other than those owned or lawfully occupied by
the owner or keeper of the animals.
(R.C. § 951.02)
      (2)   Whoever recklessly violates division (A)(1) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 951.99)
      (3)   The owner or keeper of an animal described in division (A)(1) of
this section who negligently permits it to run at large in violation of
division (A)(1) of this section is liable for all damages resulting from
injury, death, or loss to person or property caused by the animal in any of the
places specified in division (A)(1) of this section or upon the premises of
another without reference to the fence that may enclose the premises.
      (4)   The running at large of any animal specified in division (A)(1) of
this section in or upon any of the places specified in division (A)(1) of this
section is prima facie evidence in a civil action for damages under division
(A)(3) of this section that the owner or keeper of the animal negligently
permitted the animal to run at large in violation of division (A)(1) of this
section.
(R.C. § 951.10)
   (B)   Dogs running at large; dangerous dogs; debarked or surgically silenced
dangerous dogs.
      (1)   As used in this division (B), DANGEROUS DOG has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 955.11.
      (2)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of any female dog shall permit it to
go beyond the premises of the owner, keeper, or harborer at any time the dog is
in heat unless the dog is properly in leash.
      (3)   Except when a dog is lawfully engaged in hunting and accompanied by
the owner, keeper, harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or
harborer of any dog shall fail at any time to do either of the following:
         (a)   Keep the dog physically confined or restrained upon the premises
of the owner, keeper, or harborer by a leash, tether, adequate fence,
supervision, or secure enclosure to prevent escape;
         (b)   Keep the dog under the reasonable control of some person.
      (4)   Except when a dangerous dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or
training for the purpose of hunting and is accompanied by the owner, keeper,
harborer, or handler of the dog, no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous
dog shall fail to do either of the following:
         (a)   While the dog is on the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, securely confine it at all times in a locked pen that has a top,
locked fenced yard, or other locked enclosure that has a top.
         (b)   While the dog is off the premises of the owner, keeper, or
harborer, keep that dog on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than
six feet in length and additionally do at least one of the following: keep the
dog in a locked pen that has a top, locked fenced yard, or other locked
enclosure that has a top; have the leash or tether controlled by a person who
is of suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie, or affix the leash
or tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to any person; or muzzle that dog.
      (5)   No person who has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or
more violations of division (B)(3) of this section involving the same dog and
no owner, keeper, or harborer of a dangerous dog shall fail to do the
following:
         (a)   Obtain liability insurance with an insurer authorized to write
liability insurance in this state providing coverage in each occurrence because
of damage or bodily injury to or death of a person caused by the dangerous dog
if so ordered by a court and provide proof of that liability insurance upon
request to any law enforcement officer, county dog warden, or public health
official charged with enforcing this section;
         (b)   Obtain a dangerous dog registration certificate from the County
Auditor pursuant to division (B)(9) of this section, affix a tag that
identifies the dog as a dangerous dog to the dog’s collar, and ensure that the
dog wears the collar and tag at all times;
         (c)   Notify the local dog warden immediately if any of the following
occurs:
            1.   The dog is loose or unconfined.
            2.   The dog bites a person, unless the dog is on the property of
the owner of the dog, and the person who is bitten is unlawfully trespassing or
committing a criminal act within the boundaries of that property.
            3.   The dog attacks another animal while the dog is off the
property of the owner of the dog.
         (d)   If the dog is sold, given to another person, or dies, notify the
County Auditor within ten days of the sale, transfer, or death.
      (6)   No person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Debark or surgically silence a dog that the person knows or has
reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
         (b)   Possess a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason to
believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
         (c)   Falsely attest on a waiver form provided by the veterinarian
under division (B)(7) of this section that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (7)   Before a veterinarian debarks or surgically silences a dog, the
veterinarian may give the owner of the dog a written waiver form that attests
that the dog is not a dangerous dog. The written waiver form shall include all
of the following:
         (a)   The veterinarian’s license number and current business address;
         (b)   The number of the license of the dog if the dog is licensed;
         (c)   A reasonable description of the age, coloring, and gender of the
dog as well as any notable markings on the dog;
         (d)   The signature of the owner of the dog attesting that the owner’s
dog is not a dangerous dog;
         (e)   A statement that R.C. § 955.22(F) prohibits any person from
doing any of the following:
            1.   Debarking or surgically silencing a dog that the person knows
or has reason to believe is a dangerous dog;
            2.   Possessing a dangerous dog if the person knows or has reason
to believe that the dog has been debarked or surgically silenced;
            3.   Falsely attesting on a waiver form provided by the
veterinarian under R.C. § 955.22(G) that the person’s dog is not a dangerous
dog or otherwise provide false information on that written waiver form.
      (8)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of division
(B)(6) of this section that the veterinarian who is charged with the violation
obtained, prior to debarking or surgically silencing the dog, a written waiver
form that complies with division (B)(7) of this section and that attests that
the dog is not a dangerous dog.
      (9)   (a)   The County Auditor shall issue a dangerous dog registration
certificate to a person who is the owner of a dog, who is 18 years of age or
older, and who provides the following to the County Auditor:
            1.   A fee of $50;
            2.   The person’s address, phone number, and other appropriate
means for the local dog warden or County Auditor to contact the person;
            3.   With respect to the person and the dog for which the
registration is sought, all of the following:
               a.   Either satisfactory evidence of the dog’s current rabies
vaccination or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that a rabies
vaccination is medically contraindicated for the dog;
               b.    Either satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has
been neutered or spayed or a statement from a licensed veterinarian that
neutering or spaying of the dog is medically contraindicated;
               c.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the person has
posted and will continue to post clearly visible signs at the person’s
residence warning both minors and adults of the presence of a dangerous dog on
the property;
               d.   Satisfactory evidence of the fact that the dog has been
permanently identified by means of a microchip and the dog’s microchip number.
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a dangerous dog registration certificate to
the owner of a dog, the County Auditor shall provide the owner with a uniformly
designed tag that identifies the animal as a dangerous dog. The owner shall
renew the certificate annually for the same fee and in the same manner as the
initial certificate was obtained. If a certificate holder relocates to a new
county, the certificate holder shall follow the procedure in division (B)(9)
(c)2. of this section and, upon the expiration of the certificate issued in the
original county, shall renew the certificate in the new county.
         (c)   1.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within the
same county, the owner shall provide notice of the new address to the County
Auditor within ten days of relocating to the new address.
            2.   If the owner of a dangerous dog for whom a registration
certificate has previously been obtained relocates to a new address within
another county, the owner shall do both of the following within ten days of
relocating to the new address:
               a.   Provide written notice of the new address and a copy of the
original dangerous dog registration certificate to the County Auditor of the
new county;
               b.   Provide written notice of the new address to the County
Auditor of the county where the owner previously resided.
         (d)   The owner of a dangerous dog shall present the dangerous dog
registration certificate upon being requested to do so by any law enforcement
officer, dog warden, or public health official charged with enforcing this
section.
(R.C. § 955.22)
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The municipal court or county court that has territorial
jurisdiction over the residence of the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog
shall conduct any hearing concerning the designation of the dog as a nuisance
dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog.
      (2)   If a person who is authorized to enforce this chapter has
reasonable cause to believe that a dog in the person’s jurisdiction is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the person shall notify the owner,
keeper, or harborer of that dog, by certified mail or in person, of both of the
following:
         (a)   That the person has designated the dog a nuisance dog, dangerous
dog, or vicious dog, as applicable;
         (b)   That the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog may request a
hearing regarding the designation in accordance with this division (C). The
notice shall include instructions for filing a request for a hearing in the
county in which the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer resides.
      (3)   If the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog disagrees with the
designation of the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, as
applicable, the owner, keeper, or harborer, not later than ten days after
receiving notification of the designation, may request a hearing regarding the
determination. The request for a hearing shall be in writing and shall be filed
with the municipal court or county court that has territorial jurisdiction over
the residence of the dog’s owner, keeper, or harborer. At the hearing, the
person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog
has the burden of proving, by clear and convincing evidence, that the dog is a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of
the dog or the person who designated the dog as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog,
or vicious dog may appeal the court’s final determination as in any other case
filed in that court.
      (4)   A court, upon motion of an owner, keeper, or harborer or an
attorney representing the owner, keeper, or harborer, may order that the dog
designated as a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog be held in the
possession of the owner, keeper, or harborer until the court makes a final
determination under this section or during the pendency of an appeal, as
applicable. Until the court makes a final determination and during the pendency
of any appeal, the dog shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the
provisions of division (B)(4) that apply to dangerous dogs regardless of
whether the dog has been designated as a vicious dog or a nuisance dog rather
than a dangerous dog. The owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog shall not be
required to comply with any other requirements established in this Code or the
Ohio Revised Code that concern a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog,
as applicable, until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal.
      (5)   If a dog is finally determined under this division (C), or on
appeal as described in this division (C), to be a vicious dog, R.C. § 955.11(D)
and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section apply with respect to the dog
and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as if the dog were a dangerous
dog, and § 90.37 applies with respect to the dog as if it were a dangerous dog,
and the court shall issue an order that specifies that those provisions apply
with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer in that manner. As
part of the order, the court shall require the owner, keeper, or harborer to
obtain the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)(a) in an amount
described in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
      (6)   As used in this division (C), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.222)
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a dog that is not a
nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog shall be fined not less than $25 or
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 or more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(1)(a) of
this section, if the offender is guilty of a violation of division (B)(2) of
this section or a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that involves a
dog that is not a nuisance dog, dangerous dog, or vicious dog, the court may
order the offender to personally supervise the dog that the offender owns,
keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience training, or to
do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a nuisance dog is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the
first offense and of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on each subsequent
offense involving the same dog. Upon a person being convicted of or pleading
guilty to a third violation of division (B)(3) of this section involving the
same dog, the court shall require the offender to register the involved dog as
a dangerous dog.
         (b)   In addition to the penalties prescribed in division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, if a violation of division (B)(3) of this section involves a
nuisance dog, the court may order the offender to personally supervise the
nuisance dog that the offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to
complete dog obedience training, or to do both.
(R.C. § 955.99(F))
      (3)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this section that
involves a dangerous dog, or a violation of division (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense. Additionally, the
court may order the offender to personally supervise the dangerous dog that the
offender owns, keeps, or harbors, to cause that dog to complete dog obedience
training, or to do both, and the court may order the offender to obtain
liability insurance pursuant to division (B)(5) of this section. The court, in
the alternative, may order the dangerous dog to be humanely destroyed by a
licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the county humane society at
the owner’s expense. With respect to a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a dangerous dog, until the court makes a final
determination and during the pendency of any appeal of a violation of that
division and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or
restrained in accordance with division (B)(4) of this section or at the county
dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(G))
      (4)   (a)   Whoever commits a violation of division (B)(3) of this
section that involves a vicious dog is guilty of one of the following:
            1.   A felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the
dog kills or seriously injures a person. Additionally, the court shall order
that the vicious dog be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the
county dog warden, or the county humane society at the owner’s expense.
            2.   A misdemeanor of the first degree if the dog causes serious
injury to a person. Additionally, the court may order the vicious dog to be
humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   If the court does not order the vicious dog to be destroyed
under division (D)(4)(a)2. of this section, the court shall issue an order that
specifies that R.C. § 955.11(D) and divisions (B)(4) to (B)(9) of this section
apply with respect to the dog and the owner, keeper, or harborer of the dog as
if the dog were a dangerous dog and that § 90.37 applies with respect to the
dog as if it were a dangerous dog. As part of the order, the court shall order
the offender to obtain the liability insurance required under division (B)(5)
(a) of this section in an amount, exclusive of interest and costs, that equals
or exceeds $100,000. Until the court makes a final determination and during the
pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(3) of this section and at
the discretion of the dog warden, the dog shall be confined or restrained in
accordance with the provisions described in division (B)(4) of this section or
at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(H))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(b) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(J))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or (B)(6)(c) of
this section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. Additionally, the court shall order that the dog involved in the violation
be humanely destroyed by a licensed veterinarian, the county dog warden, or the
county humane society. Until the court makes a final determination and during
the pendency of any appeal of a violation of division (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), or
(B)(6)(c) of this section and at the discretion of the dog warden, the dog
shall be confined or restrained in accordance with the provisions of division
(B)(4) of this section or at the county dog pound at the owner’s expense.
(R.C. § 955.99(L))
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(5)(a), (B)(5)(c), or (B)(5)(d) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(M))
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(9)(d) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(N))
      (9)   (a)   If a dog is confined at the county dog pound pursuant to
division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the county dog warden shall
give written notice of the confinement to the owner of the dog. If the county
dog warden is unable to give the notice to the owner of the dog, the county dog
warden shall post the notice on the door of the residence of the owner of the
dog or in another conspicuous place on the premises at which the dog was
seized. The notice shall include a statement that a security in the amount of
$100 is due to the county dog warden within ten days to secure payment of all
reasonable expenses, including medical care and boarding of the dog for 60
days, expected to be incurred by the county dog pound in caring for the dog
pending the determination. The county dog warden may draw from the security any
actual costs incurred in caring for the dog.
         (b)   If the person ordered to post security under division (D)(9)(a)
of this section does not do so within ten days of the confinement of the
animal, the dog is forfeited, and the county dog warden may determine the
disposition of the dog unless the court issues an order that specifies
otherwise.
         (c)   Not more than ten days after the court makes a final
determination under division (D)(3), (D)(4), or (D)(6) of this section, the
county dog warden shall provide the owner of the dog with the actual cost of
the confinement of the dog. If the county dog warden finds that the security
provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is less than the actual cost
of confinement of the dog, the owner shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the county dog warden within 30 days
after the court’s determination. If the county dog warden finds that the
security provided under division (D)(9)(a) of this section is greater than that
actual cost, the county dog warden shall remit the difference between the
security provided and the actual cost to the owner within 30 days after the
court’s determination.
(R.C. § 955.99(P))
      (10)   As used in this division (D), NUISANCE DOG, DANGEROUS DOG, and
VICIOUS DOG have the same meanings as in R.C. § 955.11.
(R.C. § 955.99(Q))
Statutory reference:
   Power of municipality to regulate animals running at large, see R.C. §§
715.23 and 955.221
§ 90.02  CONFINING ANIMAL FOUND AT LARGE; PUBLICATION OF NOTICE; LIEN.
   A person finding an animal at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) may, and a law enforcement officer of the municipality on view or
information shall, take and confine that animal, promptly giving notice of the
taking and confining of the animal to the owner or keeper, if known, and if not
known, by publishing a notice describing the animal once in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county or municipality where the animal was found.
If the owner or keeper does not appear and claim the animal and pay the
compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for so taking, advertising, and keeping it within ten days from the date
of the notice, that person or the county shall have a lien for that
compensation and the animal may be sold at public auction as provided in R.C. §
1311.49. The residue of the proceeds of sale shall be paid and deposited by the
Treasurer in the General Funds of the county.
(R.C. § 951.11)
§ 90.03  UNAVOIDABLE ESCAPES.
   If it is proven that an animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) escaped from its owner or keeper without the owner’s or keeper’s
knowledge or fault, the animal shall be returned to its owner or keeper upon
payment of the compensation prescribed in §
90.04 for its taking, advertising and keeping.
(R.C. § 951.12)
§ 90.04  FEES.
   (A)   The person or municipality whose law enforcement officer takes an
animal running at large in violation of §
90.01(A)(1) is entitled to receive from the owner or keeper of the animal the
following compensation:
      (1)   For taking and advertising each animal, $5.00; and
      (2)   Reasonable expenses actually incurred for keeping each animal.
   (B)   Compensation for taking, advertising, and keeping a single herd or
flock shall not exceed $50.00 when the flock or herd belongs to one person.
(R.C. § 951.13)
§ 90.05  RABIES QUARANTINE ORDERS OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of the Mayor or his or her designee, rabies
is prevalent, he or she shall declare a quarantine of all dogs in the
municipality or a part thereof. During the quarantine, the owner, keeper, or
harborer of any dog shall keep it confined on the premises of the owner,
keeper, or harborer or in a pound, kennel, or other suitable place, at the
expense of the owner, keeper, or harborer, except that a dog may be permitted
to leave the premises of its owner, keeper, or harborer if it is under leash or
under the control of a responsible person. The quarantine order shall be
considered an emergency and need not be published.
   (B)   When the quarantine has been declared, the Mayor or his or her
designee may require the vaccination for rabies of all dogs within the
municipality or part thereof.
(R.C. § 955.26)
   (C)   No person shall violate a rabies quarantine order issued under this
section or R.C. § 955.26.
(R.C. § 955.39)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor for a first offense; for each subsequent offense such person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.06  INTERFERING WITH ENFORCEMENT OF QUARANTINE ORDERS.
   (A)   No person shall hinder, obstruct, resist or interfere with any
enforcing officer while engaged in enforcing an order issued under §
90.05.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.07  RESERVED.
§ 90.08  DOGS MAY BE KILLED FOR CERTAIN ACTS.
   Subject to R.C. § 955.261(A)(2) and (3), a dog that is chasing or
approaching in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack that attempts
to bite or otherwise endanger, or that kills or injures a person, or a dog that
chases, threatens, harasses, injures, or kills livestock, poultry, other
domestic animal, or other animal that is the property of another person, except
a cat or another dog, can be killed at the time of that chasing, threatening,
harassment, approaching, attempt, killing or injury.  If, in attempting to kill
such a dog, a person wounds it, the person is not liable to prosecution under
the criminal laws or ordinances that punish cruelty to animals. Nothing in this
section precludes a law enforcement officer from killing a dog that attacks a
police dog as defined in R.C. § 2921.321.
(R.C. § 955.28(A))
§ 90.09  NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl in the municipality
so as to create noxious, or offensive odors or unsanitary conditions which are
a menace to the health, comfort or safety of the public.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(`94 Code, § 505.08)
§ 90.10  ANIMAL BITES; REPORTS AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Whenever any person is bitten by a dog or other animal, report of such
bite shall be made to the Health Commissioner within 24 hours. Whenever it is
reported to the Health Commissioner that any dog or cat has bitten a person,
that dog or cat shall be quarantined under an order issued by the Health
Commissioner. The dog or cat shall be quarantined by its owner or by a
harborer, or shall be quarantined in a pound or kennel. In all cases, such
quarantine shall be under the supervision of the Health Commissioner and shall
be at the expense of the owner or harborer. Quarantine shall continue until the
Health Commissioner determines that the dog or cat is not afflicted with
rabies. The quarantine period hereby required shall not be less than ten days
from the date on which the person was bitten. If at any time during the
quarantine, the Health Commissioner requires the dog or cat to be examined for
symptoms of rabies, then the examination shall be by a licensed doctor of
veterinary medicine. The veterinarian shall report to the Health Commissioner
the conclusions reached as a result of the examinations. The examination by a
veterinarian shall be at the expense of the owner or harborer. No dog or cat
shall be released from the required quarantine unless and until it has been
properly vaccinated against rabies.  No person shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section or with any order of the Health Commissioner made
pursuant thereto, nor fail to immediately report to the Health Commissioner any
symptoms or behavior suggestive of rabies.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(`94 Code, § 505.10)
OFFENSES RELATING TO ANIMALS
§ 90.20  ABANDONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner or keeper of a dog, cat, or other domestic animal shall
abandon the animal.
(R.C. § 959.01)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(3))
§ 90.21  INJURING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, kill or injure a dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the
property of another.  This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian
acting in an official capacity.
(R.C. § 959.02)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. 
If the value of the animal killed or the injury done amounts to $300 or more,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(B))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided within 15 days thereafter, payment is made
for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual amount
of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum of
money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages.  The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass.  The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.22  POISONING ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, or willfully and without the consent of
the owner, administer poison, except a licensed veterinarian acting in such
capacity, to a  dog, cat, or any other domestic animal that is the property of
another; and no person shall, willfully and without the consent of the owner,
place any poisoned food where it may be easily found and eaten by any such
animal, either upon his or her own lands or the lands of another.
(R.C. § 959.03)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
   (C)   This section does not apply to a person killing or injuring an animal
or attempting to do so while endeavoring to prevent it from trespassing upon
his or her enclosure, or while it is so trespassing, or while driving it away
from his or her premises; provided that within 15 days thereafter, payment is
made for damages done to such animal by killing or injuring, less the actual
amount of damage done by such animal while so trespassing, or a sufficient sum
of money is deposited with the nearest judge of a county court or judge of a
municipal court having jurisdiction within such time to cover the damages.  The
deposit shall remain in the custody of such judge until there is a
determination of the damage resulting from such killing or injury and from the
trespass.  The judge and his or her bondsmen shall be responsible for the
safekeeping of such money and for the payment thereof as for money collected
upon a judgment.
(R.C. § 959.04)
§ 90.23  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS; CRUELTY TO COMPANION ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Torture an animal, deprive one of necessary sustenance,
unnecessarily or cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, or impound or
confine an animal without supplying it during the confinement with a sufficient
quantity of good wholesome food and water;
      (2)   Impound or confine an animal without affording it, during the
confinement, access to shelter from wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct
sunlight, if it can reasonably be expected that the animal would otherwise
become sick or in some other way suffer.  This division does not apply to
animals impounded or confined prior to slaughter.  For the purpose of this
section, SHELTER means an artificial enclosure, windbreak, sunshade, or natural
windbreak or sunshade that is developed from the earth's contour, tree
development, or vegetation;
      (3)   Carry or convey an animal in a cruel or inhuman manner;
      (4)   Keep animals other than cattle, poultry or fowl, swine, sheep, or
goats in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and change of air, nor feed
cows on food that produces impure or unwholesome milk;
      (5)   Detain livestock in railroad cars or compartments longer than 28
hours after they are so placed without supplying them with necessary food,
water, and attention, nor permit the stock to be so crowded as to overlie,
crush, wound, or kill each other.
   (B)   Upon the written request of the owner or person in custody of any
particular shipment of livestock, which written request shall be separate and
apart from any printed bill of lading or other railroad form, the length of
time in which the livestock may be detained in any cars or compartment without
food, water, and attention may be extended to 36 hours without penalty
therefor.  Division (A) of this section does not prevent the dehorning of
cattle.
   (C)   All fines collected for violations of division (A) of this section
shall be paid to the society or association for the prevention of cruelty to
animals, if there is one in the municipality; otherwise, all fines shall be
paid to the general fund.
(R.C. § 959.13)
   (D)   Cruelty to companion animals.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         BOARDING KENNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 956.01.
         CAPTIVE WHITE-TAILED DEER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
         COMPANION ANIMAL. Means any animal that is kept inside a residential
dwelling and any dog or cat regardless of where it is kept, including a pet
store as defined in R.C. § 956.01. The term does not include livestock or any
wild animal.
         CRUELTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         DOG KENNEL. Means an animal rescue for dogs that is registered under
R.C. § 956.06, a boarding kennel, or a training kennel.
         FEDERAL ANIMAL WELFARE ACT. Means the “Laboratory Animal Act of 1966",
Pub. L. No. 89-544, 80 Stat. 350 (1966), 7 U.S.C. §§ 2131 et seq., as amended
by the “Animal Welfare Act of 1970", Pub. L. No. 91-579, 84 Stat. 1560 (1970),
the “Animal Welfare Act Amendments of 1976", Pub. L. No. 94-279, 90 Stat. 417
(1976), and the “Food Security Act of 1985", Pub. L. No. 99-198, 99 Stat. 1354
(1985), and as it may be subsequently amended.
         LIVESTOCK. Means horses, mules, and other equidae; cattle, sheep,
goats, and other bovidae; swine and other suidae; poultry; alpacas; llamas;
captive white-tailed deer; and any other animal that is raised or maintained
domestically for food or fiber.
         PRACTICE OF VETERINARY MEDICINE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4741.01.
         RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Means a structure or shelter or the portion of a
structure or shelter that is used by one or more humans for the purpose of a
habitation.
         SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
            1.   Physical harm that carries an unnecessary or unjustifiable
substantial risk of death;
            2.   Physical harm that involves either partial or total permanent
incapacity;
            3.   Physical harm that involves acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain;
            4.   Physical harm that results from a person who confines or who
is the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal depriving the companion
animal of good, wholesome food and water that proximately causes the death of
the companion animal.                                                         
                                                                               
                                             
         TORMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TORTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1717.01.
         TRAINING KENNEL. Means an establishment operating for profit that
keeps, houses, and maintains dogs for the purpose of training the dogs in
return for a fee or other consideration.
         WILD ANIMAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or
maim, cruelly beat, poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty
against a companion animal.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly cause serious physical harm to a
companion animal.
      (4)   No person who confines or who is the custodian or caretaker of a
companion animal shall negligently do any of the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (5)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall knowingly do any of the
following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, needlessly mutilate or maim, cruelly beat,
poison, needlessly kill, or commit an act of cruelty against the companion
animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it is reasonably
expected that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or
unjustifiable pain or suffering as a result of the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it is reasonably expected
that the companion animal would die or experience unnecessary or unjustifiable
pain or suffering as a result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (6)   No owner, manager, or employee of a dog kennel who confines or is
the custodian or caretaker of a companion animal shall negligently do any of
the following:
         (a)   Torture, torment, or commit an act of cruelty against the
companion animal;
         (b)   Deprive the companion animal of necessary sustenance or confine
the companion animal without supplying it during the confinement with
sufficient quantities of good, wholesome food and water if it can reasonably be
expected that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way
as a result of or due to the deprivation or confinement;
         (c)   Impound or confine the companion animal without affording it,
during the impoundment or confinement, with access to shelter from heat, cold,
wind, rain, snow, or excessive direct sunlight if it can reasonably be expected
that the companion animal would become sick or suffer in any other way as a
result of or due to the lack of adequate shelter.
      (7)   Divisions (D)(2), (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5), and (D)(6) of this
section do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A companion animal used in scientific research conducted by an
institution in accordance with the federal animal welfare act and related
regulations;
         (b)   The lawful practice of veterinary medicine by a person who has
been issued a license, temporary permit, or registration certificate to do so
under R.C. Chapter 4741;
         (c)   Dogs being used or intended for use for hunting or field trial
purposes, provided that the dogs are being treated in accordance with usual and
commonly accepted practices for the care of hunting dogs;
         (d)   The use of common training devices, if the companion animal is
being treated in accordance with usual and commonly accepted practices for the
training of animals;
         (e)   The administering of medicine to a companion animal that was
properly prescribed by a person who has been issued a license, temporary
permit, or registration certificate under R.C. Chapter 4741.
      (8)   Notwithstanding any section of the Ohio Revised Code that otherwise
provides for the distribution of fine moneys, the Clerk of Court shall forward
all fines the Clerk collects that are so imposed for any violation of this
division (D) to the Treasurer of the municipality, whose county humane society
or law enforcement agency is to be paid the fine money as determined under this
division. The Treasurer shall pay the fine moneys to the county humane society
or the county, township, municipal corporation, or state law enforcement agency
in this state that primarily was responsible for or involved in the
investigation and prosecution of the violation. If a county humane society
receives any fine moneys under this division, the county humane society shall
use the fine moneys either to provide the training that is required for humane
society agents under R.C. §1717.061 or to provide additional training for
humane society agents.
(R.C. §959.131)
   (E)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.  In addition, the court may order the
offender to forfeit the animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition
including, but not limited to, the sale of the animal or livestock.  If an
animal or livestock is forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the
proceeds from the sale first shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with
regard to the care of the animal from the time it was taken from the custody of
the former owner.  The balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be
paid to the former owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (D)(2) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(3) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (D)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on each subsequent offense.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D)(5) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (D)(6) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   (a)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section to forfeit to an
impounding agency, as defined in R.C. § 959.132, any or all of the companion
animals in that person’s ownership or care. The court also may prohibit or
place limitations on the person’s ability to own or care for any companion
animals for a specified or indefinite period of time.
         (b)   A court may order a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty
to a violation of division (A) of this section or division (D) of this section
to reimburse an impounding agency for the reasonably necessary costs incurred
by the agency for the care of a companion animal that the agency impounded as a
result of the investigation or prosecution of the violation, provided that the
costs were not otherwise paid under R.C. §959.132.
      (7)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section suffers from a
mental or emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may
impose as a community control sanction or as a condition of probation a
requirement that the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling.
The court shall order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or
counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Impoundment of companion animals; notice and hearing, see R.C. § 959.132
§ 90.24  ANIMAL FIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Engage in cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against
another;
      (2)   Use, train, or possess any animal for seizing, detaining, or
maltreating a domestic animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Be employed at cockfighting, bearbaiting, or pitting an animal
against another;
      (2)   Do any of the following regarding an event involving cockfighting,
bearbaiting, or pitting an animal against another:
         (a)   Wager money or anything else of value on the results of the
event;
         (b)   Pay money or give anything else of value in exchange for
admission to or being present at the event;
         (c)   Receive money or anything else of value in exchange for the
admission of another person to the event or for another person to be present at
the event;
         (d)   Use, possess, or permit or cause to be present at the event any
device or substance intended to enhance an animal’s ability to fight or to
inflict injury on another animal;
         (e)   Permit or cause a minor to be present at the event if any person
present at or involved with the event is conducting any of the activities
described in division (B)(1) or (B)(2)(a), (B)(2)(b), (B)(2)(c), or (B)(2)(d)
of this section.
   (C)   A person who knowingly witnesses cockfighting, bearbaiting, or an
event in which one animal is pitted against another when a violation of
division (B) of this section is occurring at the cockfighting, bearbaiting, or
event is an aider and abettor and has committed a violation of this division.
(R.C. §959.15)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 959.99(C), (I))
Statutory reference:
   Dogfighting, felony provisions, see R.C. § 959.16
§ 90.25  TRAPSHOOTING.
   (A)   Live birds or fowl shall not be used as targets in trapshooting.
(R.C. § 959.17)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 959.99(C))
§ 90.26  LOUD DOG.
   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog shall permit or allow such dog to
annoy or disturb one or more of the inhabitants of two or more separate
residences of this municipality by the frequent or habitual howling, yelping,
barking, or making of any other unreasonably loud and disturbing noises of such
character, intensity, and duration as to disturb the peace, quiet and good
order of the municipality.  Any person who shall allow any animal habitually to
remain, be lodged or fed within any dwelling, building, yard or enclosure owned
or occupied by such person shall be considered as keeping or harboring such
animal.
Penalty, see § 90.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances generally, see
Chapter 95
§ 90.27  DOG TAGS.
   (A)   No owner of a dog, except a dog constantly confined to a dog kennel
registered under R.C. Chapter 955 or one licensed under R.C. Chapter 956, shall
fail to require the dog to wear, at all times, a valid tag issued in connection
with a certificate of registration. A dog found not wearing at any time a valid
tag shall be prima-facie evidence of lack of registration and shall subject any
dog found not wearing such a tag to impounding, sale, or destruction.
(R.C. § 955.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.28  PIT BULL TERRIERS OR OTHER VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   VICIOUS DOG.  As the term is used in this section means:
         (a)   Any dog with a propensity, tendency or disposition, to attack,
to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or other
domestic animals; or
         (b)   Any dog which attacks a human being or another domestic animal
one or more times without provocation.
   (B)   No person shall own, keep or harbor a vicious dog as defined herein
within the corporate limits of the village.
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
first degree on any subsequent offense. In addition, any person found guilty of
violating any provision of this section shall pay all expenses, including
shelter, food, veterinary expenses for identification or certification of the
breed of the animal or boarding and veterinary expenses necessitated by the
seizure of any dog for the protection of the public, and such other expenses as
may be required for the elimination of any such dog.
(`94 Code, § 505.14)  (Ord. 10-87, passed 8-11-87; Am. Ord. 13-200, passed 8-
22-17)
§ 90.29  FAILURE TO REGISTER DOG OR DOG KENNEL.
   (A)   No owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog more than three months of age,
nor owner of a dog kennel, shall fail to file an application for registration
required by R.C. § 955.01, nor shall he or she fail to pay the legal fee
therefor.
(R.C. § 955.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100 on a first offense, and on each subsequent offense shall be
fined not less than $75 nor more than $250 and may be imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(R.C. § 955.99(E))
§ 90.30  HINDERING THE CAPTURE OF UNREGISTERED DOG.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or interfere with anyone lawfully engaged in
capturing an unlicensed dog or making an examination of a dog wearing a tag.
(R.C. § 955.24)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 90.31  UNLAWFUL TAG.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, or harbor a dog wearing a fictitious,
altered, or invalid registration tag or a registration tag not issued by the
County Auditor in connection with the registration of that animal.
(R.C. § 955.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 955.99(B))
§ 90.32  RIGHTS OF BLIND, DEAF OR HEARING IMPAIRED, OR MOBILITY IMPAIRED
PERSON, OR TRAINER WITH ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   When either a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person, or a trainer of an assistance dog is accompanied by an assistance dog,
the person or the trainer, as applicable, is entitled to the full and equal
accommodations, advantages, facilities, and privileges of all public
conveyances, hotels, and lodging places, all places of public accommodation,
amusement, or resort, and other places to which the general public is invited,
and may take the dog into such conveyances and places, subject only to the
conditions and limitations applicable to all persons not so accompanied, except
that:
      (1)   The dog shall not occupy a seat in any public conveyance; and
      (2)   The dog shall be leashed while using the facilities of a common
carrier.
      (3)   Any dog in training to become an assistance dog shall be covered by
a liability insurance policy provided by the nonprofit special agency engaged
in such work protecting members of the public against personal injury or
property damage caused by the dog.
   (B)   No person shall deprive a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person, or a trainer of an assistance dog who is accompanied by an
assistance dog of any of the advantages, facilities, or privileges provided in
division (A) of this section, nor charge the person or trainer a fee or charge
for the dog.
(R.C. § 955.43(A), (B))
   (C)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Means a guide dog, hearing dog, or service dog that has
been trained by a nonprofit special agency.
      BLIND. Means either of the following:
         (a)   Vision 20/200 or less in the better eye with proper correction;
         (b)   Field defect in the better eye with proper correction that
contracts the peripheral field so that the diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      GUIDE DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to assist
a blind person.
      HEARING DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a deaf or hearing- impaired person.
      INSTITUTIONS OF EDUCATION. Means:
         (a)   Any state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.32;
         (b)   Any private college or university that holds a certificate of
authorization issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter
1713;
         (c)   Any elementary or secondary school operated by a board of
education;
         (d)   Any chartered or nonchartered nonpublic elementary or secondary
school; or
         (e)   Any school issued a certificate of registration by the state
Board of Career Colleges and Schools.
      MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Means any person, regardless of age, who is
subject to a physiological defect or deficiency regardless of its cause,
nature, or extent that renders the person unable to move about without the aid
of crutches, a wheelchair, or any other form of support, or that limits the
person’s functional ability to ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise, or perform
any related function. MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON includes a person with a
neurological or psychological disability that limits the person’s functional
ability to ambulate, climb, descend, sit, rise, or perform any related
function, and also includes a person with a seizure disorder and a person who
is diagnosed with autism.
      SERVICE DOG. Means a dog that has been trained or is in training to
assist a mobility impaired person.
(R.C. § 955.011(B), 955.43(C))
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(D))
Cross-reference:
   Assaulting assistance dog, see §
136.15
§ 90.33  RETAIL SALE AND TRANSPORTATION OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or expose for sale to the general
public at retail any dog under the age of eight weeks.
   (B)   No person shall receive or ship, for sale to the general public at
retail, any dog that is not accompanied by a certificate, issued by a licensed
veterinarian who is accredited by the United States Department of Agriculture
and authorized to issue health certificates for animals in interstate commerce,
certifying that the dog is sufficiently sound and healthy to be reasonably
expected to withstand the intended transportation without adverse effect.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the transportation of dogs in
interstate commerce by common carrier, provided that neither the point of
shipment nor the point of receiving is within this state.
   (D)   No person responsible for the transportation of a pregnant dog shall
be liable in damages for any injury or illness of, or the death of, the dog or
any puppies, whenever the injuries, illness or death results from the birth of
such puppies during the time the dog is being transported.
(R.C. § 955.50)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor for a
first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(C))
§ 90.34  COLORING RABBITS OR BABY POULTRY; REGULATION OF SALE AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   No person shall dye or otherwise color any rabbit or baby poultry,
including, but not limited to, chicks and ducklings.  No person shall sell,
offer for sale, expose for sale, raffle or give away any rabbit or baby poultry
which has been dyed or otherwise colored.  No poultry younger than four weeks
of age may be sold, given away or otherwise distributed to any person in lots
of less than six.  Stores, shops, vendors and others offering young poultry for
sale or other distribution shall provide and operate brooders or other heating
devices that may be necessary to maintain poultry in good health, and shall
keep adequate food and water available to the poultry at all times.
(R.C. § 925.62)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense; each subsequent offense is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 925.99(B))
§ 90.35  JACKLIGHTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall throw or cast the rays of a spotlight or other
artificial light from any vehicle into any field, woodland, or forest while
having in his or her possession a hunting device, or throw or cast the rays of
a spotlight or other artificial light from any vehicle into any field,
woodland, or forest for the purpose of locating a wild animal.
   (B)   This section does not apply to law enforcement officers, wildlife
officers, military personnel, and officers or employees of the Department of
Natural Resources while in the performance of their duties, or to any landowner
or lessee having a reason to use a light while engaged in surveillance or
protection of his or her property.
   (C)   An officer whose duty it is to enforce this chapter may arrest a
person whom he or she has reasonable grounds to believe is violating this
section, search the vehicle for firearms or other hunting implements in the
possession or under the control of that person, and seize the same.
(R.C. § 1533.161)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(B))
§ 90.36  HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hunt, kill or attempt to kill any animal or fowl by
the use of firearms, bow and arrow, air rifle or any other means within the
corporate limits of the municipality except as provided in division (B).
      (1)   Hunting by special permit shall be permitted only when all of the
following apply:
         (a)   The person hunting ("the hunter") possesses a current state
hunting license and possesses a current village permit, all of which he/she
carries with him/her at all times;
         (b)   The village has on file all of the necessary documentation
required concerning the hunter and the location where the hunter is hunting;
         (c)   The hunter is on the approved list of hunters maintained by the
Chief of the Plymouth Police Department and uses only the pre-approved firearm
or arrow hunting device;
         (d)   The hunter is hunting on an approved, registered hunting site,
to which all of the following apply:
            1.   The owner has consented and obtained the necessary nuisance
permits;
            2.   The location where the hunter is hunting is on the list of
hunting sites registered with the Chief of the Plymouth Police Department;
            3.   Prior to commencement of any hunting whatsoever, the owner(s)
of the hunting site shall be given a minimum of one hour notice prior to the
commencement of actual hunting;
            4.   Familiarity with the boundaries of the hunting site shall be
the sole responsibility of the hunter;
            5.   All hunting activities take place on the approved hunting
site; and
            6.   There shall be no pursuit of wounded or killed animals onto
other property unless the hunter and/or pursuer have the prior approval of
that/those property owner(s).
   (B)   A person is permitted to hunt at the village sewer treatment facility
at such dates and time if approved by the Police Chief and if the person hunts
in accordance with a valid Ohio Department of Natural Resources Nuisance
Hunting Permit issued for the village’s sewer treatment facility.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(`94 Code, §505.11)  (Am. Ord. 26-2014, passed 10-28-14; Am. Ord. 12-2018,
passed 7-10-18)
§ 90.37  RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP FOR CERTAIN CONVICTED FELONS.
   (A)   No person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a felony offense of
violence committed on or after May 22, 2012 or a felony violation of any
provision of R.C. Chapter 959, R.C. Chapter 2923 or R.C. Chapter 2925 committed
on or after May 22, 2012 shall knowingly own, possess, have custody of, or
reside in a residence with either of the following for a period of three years
commencing either upon the date of release of the person from any period of
incarceration imposed for the offense or violation or, if the person is not
incarcerated for the offense or violation, upon the date of the person’s final
release from the other sanctions imposed for the offense or violation:
      (1)   An unspayed or unneutered dog older than 12 weeks of age;
      (2)   Any dog that has been determined to be a dangerous dog under R.C.
Chapter 955 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (B)   A person described in division (A) of this section shall microchip for
permanent identification any dog owned, possessed by, or in the custody of the
person.
   (C)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
confined in a correctional institution of the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person with
respect to any dog that the person owned, possessed, had custody of, or resided
in a residence with prior to May 22, 2012.
(R.C. § 955.54)
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 955.99(O))
§ 90.38  KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   As used in this section the following definitions shall apply:
      AT-LARGE. Any animal that is not completely confined by a building wall
or fence of sufficient strength or construction to restrain the animal and
prevent the animal from leaving there at any time, or except when such animal
is either on a leash or held in the hands of the owner or keeper, or under
direct supervision of the owner or qualified person within the limits of the
owner’s private property. An animal within an automobile or other vehicle of
its owner shall not be deemed as "running at-large".
      EXOTIC ANIMALS. Includes lions, tigers, leopards, panthers, cougars,
bobcats, bears, wolves, foxes, apes, gorillas, alligators, crocodiles,
poisonous or constrictor snakes and any other member of the animal kingdom not
defined as a domestic animal or farm animal in this section which is not native
to the village and presents a risk of harm to human beings.
      FARM ANIMALS. Includes horses, ponies, mules, donkeys, cows, pigs, sheep,
goats, non-domesticated rabbits, buffalo, llamas, alpacas, poultry, including
roosters, and any other animals which are raised for the purpose of providing
food, entertainment, clothing or to be used as a beast of burden and not
classified as a domestic or exotic animal in this section.
      DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Includes dogs, cats and domesticated rabbits being kept
solely as pets or 4H projects.
      HARBOR. The act of keeping and caring for an animal or of providing
premises to which the animal returns for food, shelter, or care for a period of
at least ten days.
      OWNER/OWNERSHIP. A person who owns or has custody or control of or having
title to any animal; or a person who harbors or keeps, or causes or permits to
be harbored or kept, any animal in their care.
      PUBLIC NUISANCE. Any animal which molests passerby or passing vehicles;
attacks other animals; roams at-large; damages public or private property;
barks, whines, meows, howls, squawks or crows in a frequent or continuous
manner that disturbs any person of ordinary sensibilities in the vicinity.
   (B)   No person shall keep, possess, own, control, maintain, use or
otherwise exercise dominion over any animal or animals which, by reason of
noise, odor or sanitary conditions including lack of reasonable shelters,
becomes offensive to a reasonable and prudent person of ordinary tastes and
sensibilities, or which constitutes or becomes a health hazard as determined by
the Village Council and/or Health Department.
   (C)   No person shall be negligent in minimal animal care, which includes
sanitary living conditions, including appropriate shelter, bedding, regular
feeding schedule, and access to clean water. General animal welfare needs must
be met.
   (D)   No person shall fail to promptly remove and properly dispose of all
waste produced by any farm or domestic animals and shall maintain such animal
and the pen structure or yard it frequents free from offensive odors.
   (E)   No commercial breeding or kennel business shall be operated within any
district in this village zoned R-1 Residential or R-2 Residential.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. In the event a same and subsequent violation occurs within six months
of a plea or finding of a violation, the person shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. 1-2020, passed 2-11-20)
§ 90.39  SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH AN ANIMAL.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ANIMAL. Means a nonhuman mammal, bird, reptile, or amphibian, either dead
or alive.
      OFFENSE. Means a violation of this section or an attempt, in violation of
R.C. § 2923.02, to violate this section.
      OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 959.132.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Means either of the following committed for the purpose
of sexual gratification:
         (a)   Any act done between a person and animal that involves contact
of the penis of one and the vulva of the other, the penis of one and the penis
of the other, the penis of one and the anus of the other, the mouth of one and
the penis of the other, the mouth of one and the anus of the other, the vulva
of one and the vulva of the other, the mouth of one and the vulva of the other,
any other contact between a reproductive organ of one and a reproductive organ
of the other, or any other insertion of a reproductive organ of one into an
orifice of the other;
         (b)   Without a bona fide veterinary or animal husbandry purpose to do
so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of a person’s body or any
instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal, anal, or reproductive
opening of an animal.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly engage in sexual conduct with an animal or
knowingly possess, sell, or purchase an animal with the intent that it be
subjected to sexual conduct.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly organize, promote, aid, or abet in the
conduct of an act involving any sexual conduct with an animal.
(R.C. § 959.21)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
second degree. In addition, the court may order the offender to forfeit the
animal or livestock and may provide for its disposition including but not
limited to the sale of the animal or livestock. If an animal or livestock is
forfeited and sold pursuant to this division, the proceeds from the sale first
shall be applied to pay the expenses incurred with regard to the care of the
animal from the time it was taken from the custody of the former owner. The
balance of the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be paid to the former
owner of the animal.
(R.C. § 959.99(D))
      (2)   If a court has reason to believe that a person who is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of this section suffers from a mental or
emotional disorder that contributed to the violation, the court may impose as a
community control sanction or as a condition of probation a requirement that
the offender undergo psychological evaluation or counseling. The court shall
order the offender to pay the costs of the evaluation or counseling.
(R.C. § 959.99(E)(7))
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another penalty is
not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 91:  CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Visits at night prohibited
   
91.02   Charges
   
91.03   Disinterment
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  VISITS AT NIGHT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall visit Greenlawn Cemetery, for any purpose, during the night
season after one hour following sundown to sunrise.
(`94 Code, § 965.01)  (Ord. 30-63, passed 9-17-63)
§ 91.02  CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of administering the village cemetery and the sale of
gravesites, the following definitions are adopted:
      CEMETERY LOT. A site that contains multiple gravesites.
      FULL CEMETERY GRAVESITE. A site more than 43.5 inches by 10 feet that
will accommodate one monument and: (a) one standard vault; or (b) two cremation
ash burials; or (c) one standard vault and one cremation ash burial.
      PARTIAL CEMETERY GRAVESITE. A site less than 43.5 inches by 10 feet that
will accommodate up to two cremation ash burials and one monument.
   (B)   The following charges for cemetery services shall be made:
      (1)   Full cemetery gravesite:
         (a)   Village resident: $450.
         (b)   Non-village resident: $475.
      (2)   Partial cemetery (cremation) gravesite:
         (a)   Village resident: $300.
         (b)   Non-village resident: $325.
      (3)   Traditional interment:
         (a)   Monday through Friday: $450.
         (b)   Saturdays: $500.
         (c)   Sundays and holidays: $600.
      (4)   Cremation interment:
         (a)   Monday through Friday: $300.
         (b)   Saturday: $350.
         (c)   Sunday and holidays: $400.
      (5)   Interment with vaults four feet or less:
         (a)   Monday through Friday: $300.
         (b)   Saturday: $350.
         (c)   Sunday and holidays: $400.
      (5)   Interment with vaults four feet or less:
         (a)   Monday through Friday: $200.
         (b)   Saturday: $250.
         (c)   Sunday and holidays: $300.
      (6)   Bases or foundations for monuments shall be charged a locating fee
of $50 per base or foundation.
      (7)   Disinterment: $600.
      (8)   Concrete plaque base: $50.
      (9)   All concrete foundations shall be prepared by the village at a cost
in accordance with the cost schedule adopted by Council.
      (10)   Mausoleum vault: $3,500 each.
      (11)   Installation of military headstone: $50 each.
(`94 Code, § 965.02)  (Ord. 2-87, passed 1-13-87; Am. Ord. 6-94, passed 3-11-
94; Am. Ord. 46-2000, passed 12-12-00; Am. Ord. 1-2012, passed 2-14-12; Am.
Ord. 19-2012, passed 11-13-12; Am. Ord. 15-2013, passed 7-9-13; Am. Ord. 15-
2016, passed 9-13-16)
§ 91.03  DISINTERMENT.
   (A)   As used in this section, DISINTERMENT means the recovery of human
remains by exhumation, disentombment, or disinurnment. The term does not
include the raising and lowering of remains to accommodate two interments
within a single grave and does not include the repositioning of an outside
burial container and encroaches an adjoining burial space.
   (B)   Disinterment may be permitted by a surviving spouse of a decedent if
the spouse is over 18 years of age and the spouse complies with R.C. § 517.23
(A)(1) and R.C. § 517.24, or any subsequent amendment thereto.
   (C)   Disinterments may be permitted by persons who are 18 years of age or
older and of sound mind upon compliance with R.C. § 517.23(A)(2) and R.C. §
517.24(B)(1), or any subsequent amendments thereto, and upon obtaining a court
order.
   (D)   The Village Administrator and Village Cemetery Sexton may disinter or
grant permission to disinter and, if appropriate, may reinter or grant
permission to reinter any remains buried in the cemetery to correct an
interment error in the cemetery if they comply with the internal rules of the
cemetery pertaining to disinterments and if they provide notice of the
disinterment to the decedent’s last known next of kin. They may correct an
interment error under this division without a court order or an application by
a person provided:
      (1)   Notice is given to the decedent’s last known next of kin. Service
shall be by personal service, certified mail or by publication. Publication
shall comply with Ohio Probate Rule 73(E).
      (2)   Council confirms the interment error and authorizes the actual
interment.
      (3)   Compliance is made with R.C. § 517.23(D), and any subsequent
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 8-2013, passed 6-11-13)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(`94 Code, § 965.99)
CHAPTER 92:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Policy
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful practices
   
92.04   Exceptions
   
92.05   Complaints; procedure
   
92.06   Other remedies
§ 92.01  POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the village, in the exercise of
its police power for the public safety, health and general welfare, to ensure
equal opportunity to all persons to live in decent housing facilities
regardless of race, color, religion, sex or national origin and, to that end,
to prohibit discrimination in housing by any person.
(`94 Code, § 515.01)  (Ord. 26-81, passed 8-27-81)
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION and DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICE.  Any difference in treatment
based upon race, color, religion, sex or national origin, or any act that is
unlawful under this chapter.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.  A person engaged in the business of lending money or
guaranteeing losses.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION and DWELLING.  A building, mobile home or trailer,
structure, or portion thereof, which is occupied or designed or intended for
occupancy as a residence by one or more families, or any vacant land which is
offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such
building, mobile home or trailer, structure, or portion thereof, used or
intended to be used for any of the purposes set forth in this section.
   MORTGAGE BROKER.  An individual who is engaged in or who performs the
business or services of a mortgage broker as the same are defined in state law.
   OPEN MARKET.  The market which is informed of the availability for sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation, whether so informed
through a real estate broker or by advertising by publication, signs or any
other advertising method directed to the public or any portion thereof.
   OWNER.  The lessee, sublessee, co-tenant, assignee, managing agent or other
person having the right of ownership or possession or the right to sell, rent
or lease, any housing accommodation.
   PERSON.  Includes individuals, children, firms, associations, joint
ventures, partnerships, estates, trusts, business trusts, syndicates,
fiduciaries, corporations and all other groups or combinations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER and REAL ESTATE SALESMAN. 
      (1)   An individual, qualified by law, who, for a fee, commission, salary
or other valuable consideration, or who, with the intention or expectation of
receiving or collecting the same, lists, sells, purchases, rents or leases a
housing accommodation, including options thereupon, or who negotiates or
attempts to negotiate a loan, secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance, upon
the transfer of any housing accommodation;
      (2)   An individual, qualified by law, who is engaged in the business of
charging an advance fee or contracting for the collection of a fee in
connection with a contract whereby he or she undertakes to promote the sale,
purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation through its listing in a
publication issued primarily for such purpose; or
      (3)   An individual employed by or acting on behalf of the persons
referred to in divisions (1) and (2) hereof.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes buildings, structures, lands, tenements,
leaseholds, cooperatives and condominiums.
(`94 Code, § 515.02)  (Ord. 26-81, passed 8-27-81)
§ 92.03  UNLAWFUL PRACTICES.
   (A)   In connection with any of the transactions set forth in this section
which affect any housing accommodation on the open market, or in connection
with the public sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation,
no person, owner, financial institution, real estate broker or real estate
salesman, or any representative of any of them, shall:
      (1)   Refuse to sell, purchase, rent or lease, or deny to or withhold
from a person, any housing accommodation, because of his or her race, color,
religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
      (2)   Discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any housing accommodation,
or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (3)   Refuse to receive or transmit a bona fide offer to sell, purchase,
rent or lease any housing accommodation from or to a person because of his or
her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
      (4)   Refuse to negotiate for the sale, purchase, rental or lease of any
housing accommodation to a person because of his or her race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
      (5)   Represent to a person that any housing accommodation is not
available for inspection, sale, purchase, rental or lease when in fact it is so
available, or refuse to permit a person to inspect any housing accommodation
because or his or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or
place of birth;
      (6)   Make, publish, print, circulate, post or mail, or cause to be made,
published, printed, circulated, posted or mailed, any notice, statement or
advertisement, or announce a policy or sign or use a form of application for
the sale, purchase, rental, lease or financing of any housing accommodation,
which indicates any discrimination or intent to discriminate;
      (7)   Offer, solicit, accept or use a listing of any housing
accommodation for sale, purchase, rental or lease with the understanding that a
person may he subjected to discrimination in connection with such sale,
purchase, rental or lease or in the furnishing of facilities or services in
connection therewith;
      (8)   Induce, directly or indirectly, or attempt to induce directly or
indirectly, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing for any of the
same, of any housing accommodation by representing that the presence or
anticipated presence of persons of a particular race, color, religion,
ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth in the area to be affected by
such sale, purchase, rental or lease will or may result in:
         (a)   The lowering of property values in the area;
         (b)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area; or
         (c)   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area;
      (9)   Make any misrepresentation concerning the listing for sale,
purchase, rental or lease, or the anticipated listing for any of the same, or
concerning the sale, purchase, rental or lease, of any housing accommodation in
any area in the village, for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce
any such listing or any of the transactions listed in this division;
      (10)   Engage in, hire to be done or conspire with others to commit acts
or activities the purpose of which is to coerce, cause panic, incite unrest or
create or play upon fear, with the purpose of either discouraging or inducing,
or attempting to induce, the sale, purchase, rental or lease, or the listing
for any of the same, of any housing accommodation.
      (11)   Retaliate or discriminate in any manner against a person because
he or she has opposed a practice declared unlawful by this chapter or because
he or she has filed a complaint, testified, assisted or participated in any
manner in any investigation, proceeding, hearing or conference pursuant to this
chapter;
      (12)   Aid, abet, incite, compel or coerce a person to engage in any of
the practices prohibited by this chapter, or obstruct or prevent a person from
complying with the provisions of this chapter or any order issued hereunder;
      (13)   By canvassing, commit an unlawful practice prohibited by this
chapter;
      (14)   Otherwise deny to, or withhold any housing accommodation from, a
person because of this or her race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin,
sex or place of birth;
      (15)   If he, she or it is a bank, building and loan association,
insurance company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose
business consists in whole or in part of the making of commercial real estate
loans, deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor
for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling, or discriminate against him or her in the fixing of the
amount, interest rate, duration or other terms or conditions of such loans or
other financial assistance because of the race, color, religion, ancestry,
national origin, sex or place of birth of such person or of a person associated
with him or her in connection with such loan or other financial assistance, or
the purposes of such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling in relation
to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given; or
      (16)   Deny a qualified person access to or membership or participation
in a multiple listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other
service, organization or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or discriminate against him or her in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of the
person's race, color, religion, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of
birth.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues.
(`94 Code, § 515.03)  (Ord. 26-81, passed 8-27-81)
§ 92.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A religious organization, association or society, or a nonprofit
institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or in
conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, which limits
the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates, for other
than noncommercial purposes, to persons of the same religion or which gives
preference to such persons, unless membership in such a religion is restricted
on account of race, color, ancestry, national origin, sex or place of birth;
   (B)   A private club not open to the public, which club, as an incident to
its primary purpose, provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than
a commercial purpose and limits the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its
members or gives preference to its members;
   (C)   Any single-family house sold or rented by a private individual owner,
provided that:
      (1)   Such owner does not own more than three such single-family houses
at any one time.
      (2)   In the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a
private individual owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or
who was not the most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the
exemption granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such
sale in any 24-month period.
      (3)   Such bona fide owner does not own any interest in, nor is there
owned or served on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement,
title to or any right to all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or
rental of, more than three such single-family houses at any one time.
      (4)   The sale or rental of any such single-family house shall be
excepted from the application of this chapter only if such house is sold or
rented:
         (a)   Without the use in any manner of the sales or rental facilities
or the sales or rental services of a real estate broker, agent or salesman, or
of such facilities or services of a person in the business of selling or
renting dwellings, or of an employee or agent of any such broker, agent,
salesman or person; and
         (b)   Without the publication, posting or mailing, after notice, of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of the provisions of 42 USC
3604(c), or of §
92.03 of this code. However, nothing in this provision shall prohibit the use
of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title companies and other such
professional assistance as is necessary to perfect or transfer the title.
   (D)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by not more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of the living
quarters as his or her residence.
(`94 Code, § 515.05)  (Ord. 26-81, passed 8-27-81)
§ 92.05  COMPLAINTS; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A person aggrieved by an unlawful practice prohibited by this chapter
may file a complaint with the Clerk-Treasurer (the Fair Housing Officer) within
30 days after the aggrieved person becomes aware of the alleged unlawful
practice and in no event more than 60 days after the alleged unlawful practice
occurred. The Clerk-Treasurer or his or her duly authorized representative
shall investigate and attempt to resolve each complaint. Failure to achieve a
resolution acceptable to both parties and in compliance with this chapter shall
cause the Clerk-Treasurer to forward the complaint and his or her findings to
Council. If Council fails to achieve a resolution acceptable to both parties
and in compliance with this chapter, the Mayor shall contact appropriate state
and federal officials.
   (B)   The remedies provided in division (A) hereof shall be in addition to
the penalty provided in §
92.03(B).
(`94 Code, § 515.05)  (Ord. 26-81, passed 8-27-81)
§ 92.06  OTHER REMEDIES.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent a person from exercising a
right or seeking a remedy to which he or she might otherwise be entitled or
from filing his or her complaint with an appropriate governmental agency.
(`94 Code, § 515.06)  (Ord. 26-81, passed 8-27-81)
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
Ohio Fire Code; Fire Prevention
   
93.01   Adoption
   
93.02   Purpose and application
   
93.03   Enforcement
   
93.04   Compliance
   
93.05   Posting arson notices in hotels, motels and other places
   
93.06   Negligent burning
   
93.07   Spreading alarm of unfriendly fire
   
93.08   Unvented heaters
   
93.09   Disclosure of true fire safety inspector status
   
93.10   Fire equipment sale or use; certification of installers
   
93.11   Copies of code
   
93.12   Conflict
   
93.13   Repair or removal of damaged or destroyed buildings
Open Burning
   
93.25   Definitions
   
93.26   Relations to other prohibitions
   
93.27   Open burning in restricted areas
   
93.28   Permission and notice to open burn
   
93.29   Additional requirements and restrictions on open burning
Fireworks
   
93.40   Definitions
   
93.41   Possession, sale and use of fireworks
   
93.42   Permit to use fireworks
   
93.43   Manufacturing or wholesale sale without a license; prohibitions
   
93.44   Purchasers to comply with law; unauthorized purchases
   
93.45   Exhibition without a license; prohibitions for exhibitions
   
93.46   Unauthorized transportation or shipping
   
93.47   Application of subchapter
   
93.48   Arrest of offender; seizure and forfeiture of fireworks; distribution
of fines
   
93.49   Safety requirements for fireworks showroom structures
 
   
93.99   Penalty
OHIO FIRE CODE; FIRE PREVENTION
§ 93.01  ADOPTION.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the municipality, the Ohio Fire Code (OFC)
as adopted by the Ohio Division of State Fire Marshal, Department of Commerce,
effective June 15, 1992, and as published in Division 1301:7 of the Ohio
Administrative Code (OAC).
   (B)   The BOCA National Fire Prevention Code, 1990, eighth edition, as
promulgated by the Building Officials and Code Administrators International,
Inc., as amended by Chapters 1301:7-1 to 1301:7-7 of the Ohio Administrative
Code, is incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length.
(`94 Code, § 1501.01)
§ 93.02  PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of the Ohio Fire Code as adopted herein is to
prescribe minimum standards and regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire or explosion.
(`94 Code, § 1501.02)
   (B)   Application.  The Ohio Fire Code as adopted herein applies to the use
of all lands and properties within the municipality and such other lands or
properties owned by the municipality which are situated outside the corporate
limits thereof.
(`94 Code, § 1501.03)
§ 93.03  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall serve as a Fire Safety Inspector for any fire agency
unless he or she has received a certificate under former R.C. § 3303.07 or R.C.
§ 4765.55 evidencing his or her satisfactory completion of a fire safety
inspector training program.
(R.C. § 3737.34)
   (B)   For municipal criminal proceedings, the complaint, warrant or summons,
or the issuance of a citation in minor misdemeanor cases shall be, as is
prescribed in the Ohio Rules of Criminal Procedure, by referencing the
numerical designation of the applicable municipal ordinance, including the
specific provision of the Ohio Fire Code, or any order issued pursuant thereto,
provided such order fixes a reasonable time for abatement of the violation.
State enforcement proceedings for violation of Ohio R.C. Chapter 3737 or the
Ohio Fire Code shall be as is prescribed in Ohio R.C. 3737.41 to 3737.46.
   (C)   A copy of such complaint or citation shall be prominently posted at or
near each place a violation referred to occurs.
   (D)   Upon request of the Municipal Fire Safety Inspector, the Municipal
Legal Officer shall institute and prosecute any necessary action or proceeding
to enforce this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3737.
(`94 Code, § 1501.04)
§ 93.04  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the State Fire Code
or any order made pursuant to it.
(R.C. § 3737.51(A))  (`94 Code, § 1501.05)
   (B)   Except as a violation of R.C. § 2923.17, regarding the felonies of
unlawful possession of a dangerous ordnance and illegal manufacture or
processing of explosives, involves subject matter covered by the State Fire
Code, whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Fire Code violations, see R.C. §§ 3737.41 et seq.
   Ohio Fire Code, see O.A.C. Chapter 1301:7
§ 93.05  POSTING ARSON NOTICES IN HOTELS, MOTELS AND OTHER PLACES.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee of any hotel, motel or transient
residential building shall post the provisions of R.C. §§ 2909.02 and 2909.03,
regarding aggravated arson and arson, in a conspicuous place in each room
occupied by guests in such building.  The owner, operator or lessee of any
nontransient residential building, institution, school or place of assembly
shall post the provisions of such sections in conspicuous places upon such
premises.  No person shall fail to comply with this section.
(R.C. § 3737.61)  (`94 Code, § 1501.06)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3737.99(C))
§ 93.06  NEGLIGENT BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall set, kindle, or cause to be set or kindled any fire
which, through his or her negligence, spreads beyond its immediate confines to
any structure, field or wooded lot.
(R.C. § 3737.62)  (`94 Code, § 1501.07)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(D))
Cross-reference:
   Arson, see §
131.02
§ 93.07  SPREADING ALARM OF UNFRIENDLY FIRE.
   (A)   The owner, operator or lessee, an employee of any owner, operator or
lessee, an occupant, and any person in direct control of any building regulated
under the state building code, upon the discovery of an unfriendly fire, or
upon receiving information that there is an unfriendly fire upon the premises,
shall immediately, and with all reasonable dispatch and diligence, call or
otherwise notify the fire department concerning the fire, and shall spread an
alarm immediately to all occupants of the building.
   (B)   As used in this section, UNFRIENDLY FIRE means a fire of a destructive
nature as distinguished from a controlled fire intended for a beneficial
purpose.
(R.C. § 3737.63)  (`94 Code, § 1501.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(E))
§ 93.08  UNVENTED HEATERS.
   (A)   The use of a brazier, salamander, space heater, room heater, furnace,
water heater, or other burner or heater using wood, coal, coke, fuel oil,
kerosene, gasoline, natural gas, liquid petroleum gas or similar fuel, and
tending to give off carbon monoxide or other harmful gases must comply with the
following provisions;
      (1)   When used in living quarters, or in any enclosed building or space
in which persons are usually present, shall be used with a flue or vent so
designed, installed, and maintained as to vent the products of combustion
outdoors; except in storage, factory, or industrial buildings which are
provided with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide
poisoning.
      (2)   When used as a portable or temporary burner or heater at a
construction site, or in a warehouse, shed, or structure in which persons are
temporarily present, shall be vented as provided in division (A)(1) or used
with sufficient ventilation to avoid the danger of carbon monoxide poisoning.
   (B)   This section does not apply to domestic ranges, laundry stoves, gas
logs installed in a fireplace with an adequate flue, or hot plates, unless the
same are used as space or room heaters.
   (C)   No person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in
charge, or occupant of premises, negligently permit the use of a burner or
heater in violation of the standards for venting and ventilation provided in
this section.
   (D)   Division (A) above does not apply to any kerosene-fired space or room
heater that is equipped with an automatic extinguishing tip-over device, or to
any natural gas-fired or liquid petroleum gas-fired space or room heater that
is equipped with an oxygen depletion safety shut-off system, and that has its
fuel piped from a source outside the building in which it is located, that are
approved by an authoritative source recognized by the State Fire Marshal in the
State Fire Code adopted by him or her under R.C. § 3737.82.
   (E)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules to ensure the safe use of
unvented kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heaters exempted from
division (A) above when used in assembly buildings, business buildings, high
hazard buildings, institutional buildings, mercantile buildings, and type R-
1 and R-2 residential buildings, as these groups of buildings are defined in
rules adopted by the Board of Building Standards under R.C. § 3781.10.  No
person shall negligently use, or, being the owner, person in charge or occupant
of premises, negligently permit the use of a heater in violation of any rules
adopted under this division.
   (F)   The State Fire Marshal may make rules prescribing standards for
written instructions containing ventilation requirements and warning of any
potential fire hazards that may occur in using a kerosene, natural gas, or
liquid petroleum gas heater.  No person shall sell or offer for sale any
kerosene, natural gas, or liquid petroleum gas heater unless the manufacturer
provides with the heater written instructions that comply with any rules
adopted under this division.
   (G)   No product labeled as a fuel additive for kerosene heaters and having
a flash point below 100°F or 37.8°C shall be sold, offered for sale, or used in
any kerosene space heater.
   (H)   No device that prohibits any safety feature on a kerosene, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas space heater from operating shall be sold, offered
for sale, or used in connection with any kerosene, natural gas, or liquid
petroleum gas space heater.
   (I)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any kerosene-fired, natural
gas, or liquid petroleum gas- fired heater that is not exempt from division (A)
above, unless it is marked conspicuously by the manufacturer on the container
with the phrase “Not Approved For Home Use.”
   (J)   No person shall use a cabinet-type, liquid petroleum gas-fired heater
having a fuel source within the heater, inside any building, except as
permitted by the State Fire Marshal in the State Fire Code adopted by him or
her under R.C. § 3737.82.
(R.C. § 3701.82)
   (K)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(B))
§ 93.09  DISCLOSURE OF TRUE FIRE SAFETY INSPECTOR STATUS.
   No person who is not a certified Fire Safety Inspector shall act as such or
hold himself out to be such, unless prior to commencing any inspection
function, he discloses the purpose for which he is making such inspection and
the fact that he is not employed by any state or local fire service or agency,
and that he is not acting in an official capacity for any governmental
subdivision or agency.
(R.C. § 3737.64)  (`94 Code, § 1501.09)
§ 93.10  FIRE EQUIPMENT SALE OR USE; CERTIFICATION OF INSTALLERS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or use any fire protection or
fire fighting equipment that does not meet the minimum standards established by
the Ohio Fire Marshal in the Ohio Fire Code.
   (B)   Except for public and private mobile fire trucks, no person shall
service, test, repair or install for profit any fire protection or fire
fighting equipment without a certificate issued by the Ohio Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3737.65.
(`94 Code, § 1501.10)  (R.C. § 3737.65(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(E))
§ 93.11  COPIES OF CODE.
   Copies of codes as adopted in this chapter are on file with the Council
Clerk for inspection by the public, and also on file in the County Law Library,
and the Clerk has copies available for distribution to the public at cost.
(`94 Code, § 1501.11)
§ 93.12  CONFLICT.
   (A)   The rules of the Ohio Board of Building Standards including the Ohio
Basic Building Code shall supersede and govern any order, standard or rule of
the Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal including the Ohio
Fire Code, in all cases where such orders, standards or rules are in conflict
with the rules of the Ohio Board of Building Standards, except that rules
adopted and orders issued by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. Chapter
3743 prevail in the event of conflict.
(R.C. § 3781.11)
   (B)   In all other cases of conflict between the Ohio Fire Code and any
other municipal ordinance or technical code adopted thereby, the more
restrictive provision shall govern.
(`94 Code, § 1501.12)
§ 93.13  REPAIR OR REMOVAL OF DAMAGED OR DESTROYED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The procedures of R.C. 3292.86(C) and (D) providing for the receipt of
insurance proceeds as security against the total cost of removing, repairing or
securing any building or structure damaged or destroyed by fire and thereby
hazard or nuisance by village ordinance and procedures shall be and is adopted.
   (B)   The Village Administrator is designated as the authorized officer to
carry out the duties required by R.C. 3929.86.
(Ord. 10-2007, passed 3-13-07)
OPEN BURNING
§ 93.25  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL WASTE. Any waste material generated by crop, horticultural,
or livestock production practices, and includes such items as woody debris and
plant matter from stream flooding, bags, cartons, structural materials, and
landscape wastes that are generated in agricultural activities, but does not
include land clearing waste; buildings (including dismantled/fallen barns);
garbage; dead animals; animal waste; motor vehicles and parts thereof; nor
economic poisons and containers thereof, unless the manufacturer has identified
open burning as a safe disposal procedure.
      AIR CURTAIN BURNER. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high- velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in a manufactured steel structure and
for which a permit-to-install has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-31 and a permit-to-operate has been obtained as required in O.A.C. Chapter
3745-77.
      AIR CURTAIN DESTRUCTOR. An engineered apparatus consisting of a motorized
high- velocity fan and an air distribution system designed to aid in the
efficient combustion of materials placed in an adjacent pit. An air curtain
burner may be used in place of an air curtain destructor, but an air curtain
destructor may not be used in place of an air curtain burner.
      ECONOMIC POISONS. Include but are not restricted to pesticides such as
insecticides, fungicides, rodenticides, miticides, nematocides and fumigants;
herbicides; seed disinfectants; and defoliants.
      EMERGENCY BURNING. The burning of clean wood waste or deceased animals
caused by a natural disaster or an uncontrolled event such as the following:
         (a)   A tornado.
         (b)   High winds.
         (c)   An earthquake.
         (d)   An explosion.
         (e)   A flood.
         (f)   A hail storm, a rain storm, or an ice storm.
      GARBAGE. Any waste material resulting from the handling, processing,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food or food products.
      INHABITED BUILDING. Any inhabited private dwelling house and any public
structure which may be used as a place of resort, assembly, education,
entertainment, lodging, trade, manufacture, repair, storage, traffic, or
occupancy by the public. Examples would include, but are not limited to,
highway rest stops, restaurants, motels, hotels and gas stations.
      LAND CLEARING WASTE. Plant waste material which is removed from land,
including plant waste material removed from stream banks during projects
involving more than one property owner, for the purpose of rendering the land
useful for residential, commercial, or industrial development. Land clearing
waste also includes the plant waste material generated during the clearing of
land for new agricultural development.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. Any plant waste material, except garbage, including
trees, tree trimmings, branches, stumps, brush, weeds, leaves, grass,
shrubbery, yard trimmings, and crop residues.
      OHIO EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Director or agencies
delegated authority by the Director of the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to R.C. § 3704.03 or the Chief of any Ohio Environmental Protection
Agency District Office.
      OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without
passing through a stack or chimney. Open burning includes the burning of any
refuse or salvageable material in any device not subject to or designed
specifically to comply with the requirements of O.A.C. 3745-17-09 or O.A.C.
3745-17-10.
      RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Any waste material, including landscape waste,
generated on the property of a one-, two- or three-family residence as a result
of residential activities, but not including garbage, rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, or plastics.
      RESTRICTED AREA. The area within the boundary of the municipality, plus a
zone extending 1,000 feet beyond the boundaries of a municipality having a
population of 1,000 to 10,000 persons and a zone extending one mile beyond any
municipality having a population of 10,000 persons or more according to the
latest federal census.
      UNRESTRICTED AREA. All areas outside the boundaries of a restricted area
as defined in this section.
   (B)   Referenced materials. This subchapter includes references to certain
matter or materials. The text of the referenced materials is not included in
the legislation contained in this subchapter. Information on the availability
of the referenced materials as well as the date of, and/or the particular
edition or version of the material is included in this legislation. For
materials subject to change, only the specific versions specified in this
legislation are referenced. Material is referenced as it exists on the
effective date of this legislation. Except for subsequent annual publication of
existing (unmodified) Code of Federal Regulation compilations, any amendment or
revision to a referenced document is not applicable unless and until this
section has been amended to specify the new dates.
      (1)   Availability. The referenced materials are available as follows:
         (a)   Clean Air Act. Information and copies may be obtained by writing
to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO Box 371954, Pittsburgh,
PA 15250-7954. The full text of the act as amended in 1990 is also available in
electronic format at www.epa.gov/oar/caa/. A copy of the act is also available
for inspection and use at most public libraries and the State Library of Ohio.
         (b)   Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.). Information and copies may
be obtained by writing to: Superintendent of Documents, Attn: New Orders, PO
Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The full text of the C.F.R. is also
available in electronic format at http://www.ecfr.gov. The C.F.R. compilations
are also available for inspection and use at most public libraries and the
State Library of Ohio.
         (c)   National Fire Protection Association. Information on the
National Fire Protection Association codes may be obtained by contacting the
Association at 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02169-7471, 617-770-
3000. Codes may be ordered at www.nfpa.org/catalog/home/index.asp. Copies of
the code exist or are available at most public libraries and the State Library
of Ohio.
      (2)   Referenced materials.
         (a)   40 C.F.R. § 60.2974: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (b)   40 C.F.R. § 60.3069: “Am I required to apply for and obtain a
title V operating permit for my air curtain incinerator that burns only wood
waste, clean lumber, and yard waste?” as published in the July 1, 2012 Code of
Federal Regulations.
         (c)   NFPA publication 1403: “Standard on Live Fire Training
Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures” published April 30, 2007.
         (d)   Section 129 of the Clean Air Act, contained in 42 U.S.C. § 7429:
“Solid waste combustion” published January 2, 2006 in Supplement V of the 2000
Edition of the United States Code.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-01)  (`94 Code, § 1511.01)
§ 93.26  RELATIONS TO OTHER PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any provision in O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19, no open
burning shall be conducted in an area where an air alert, warning or emergency
under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-25 is in effect.
   (B)   No provisions of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 permitting open burning, and
no permission to open burn granted by the Ohio EPA, shall exempt any person
from compliance with any section of the Ohio Revised Code, or any regulation of
any state department, or any local ordinance or regulation dealing with open
burning.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-02)  (`94 Code, § 1511.02) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.27  OPEN BURNING IN RESTRICTED AREAS.
   (A)   No person or property owner shall cause or allow open burning in a
restricted area except as provided in divisions (B) to (D) of this section or
in R.C. § 3704.11.
   (B)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes without
notification to or permission from the Ohio EPA:
      (1)   Heating tar, welding, acetylene torches, highway safety flares,
heating for warmth of outdoor workers and strikers, smudge pots and similar
occupational needs.
      (2)   Bonfires, campfires and outdoor fireplace equipment, whether for
cooking food for human consumption, pleasure, religious, ceremonial, warmth,
recreational, or similar purposes, if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They shall have a total fuel area of three feet or less in
diameter and two feet or less in height.
      (3)   Disposal of hazardous explosive materials, military munitions or
explosive devices that require immediate action to prevent endangerment of
human health, public safety, property or the environment and that are excluded
from the requirement to obtain a hazardous waste permit pursuant to O.A.C.
3745-50-45(D)(1)(d).
      (4)   Recognized training in the use of fire extinguishers for commercial
or industrial fire prevention.
      (5)   Fires set at the direction of federal, state, and local law
enforcement officials for the purpose of destruction of cannabis sativa
(marijuana) plant vegetation, processed marijuana material and/or other drugs
seized by federal, state, or local law enforcement officials.
      (6)   Fires allowed by divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), and (B)(4) of this
section shall not be used for waste disposal purposes and shall be of minimum
size sufficient for their intended purpose; the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
   (C)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes with prior
notification to the Ohio EPA in accordance with §
93.28(B):
      (1)   Prevention or control of disease or pests, with written or verbal
verification to the Ohio EPA from the Ohio Department of Health or local health
department, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, cooperative
extension service, Ohio Department of Agriculture, or U.S. Department of
Agriculture, that open burning is the only appropriate disposal method.
      (2)   Bonfires or campfires used for ceremonial purposes that do not meet
the requirements of division (B)(2) of this section, provided the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   They have a total fuel area no greater than five feet in
diameter by five feet in height and burn no longer than three hours;
         (b)   They are not used for waste disposal purposes; and
         (c)   They are fueled with clean seasoned firewood, natural gas or
equivalent, or any clean burning fuel with emissions that are equivalent to or
lower than those created from the burning of seasoned firewood.
      (3)   Disposal of agricultural waste generated on the premises if the
following conditions are observed:
         (a)   The fire is set only when atmospheric conditions will readily
dissipate contaminants;
         (b)   The fire does not create a visibility hazard on the roadways,
railroad tracks, or air fields;
         (c)   The fire is located at a point on the premises no less than
1,000 feet from any inhabited building not located on said premises;
         (d)   The wastes are stacked and dried to provide the best practicable
condition for efficient burning; and
         (e)   No materials are burned which contain rubber, grease, asphalt,
liquid petroleum products, plastics or building materials.
   (D)   Open burning shall be allowed for the following purposes upon receipt
of written permission from the Ohio EPA, in accordance with §
93.28(A), provided that any conditions specified in the permission are
followed:
      (1)   Disposal of ignitable or explosive materials where the Ohio EPA
determines that there is no practical alternate method of disposal, excluding
those materials identified in division (B)(3) of this section;
      (2)   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in the
control of fires as recognized by the State Fire Marshal Division of the Ohio
Department of Commerce and the guidelines set forth in the National Fire
Protection Association’s (NFPA) publication 1403, Standard on Live Fire
Training Evolutions, Chapter 4, Acquired Structures, provided that the
application required in §
93.28(A)(1) is submitted by the commercial or public entity responsible for the
instruction;
      (3)   In emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any purpose
determined to be necessary by the Director and performed as identified in the
appendix to O.A.C. 3745-19-03. If deemed  necessary, the open burning may be
authorized with prior oral approval by the Director followed by the issuance of
a written permission to open burn within seven working days of the oral
approval;
      (4)   Recognized horticultural, silvicultural (forestry), range, or
wildlife management practices; and
      (5)   Fires and/or pyrotechnic effects, for purposes other than waste
disposal, set as part of commercial film-making or video production activities
for motion pictures and television.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-03)  (`94 Code, § 1511.03)  (Am. Ord. 19-98, passed 8-25-98) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.28  PERMISSION AND NOTICE TO OPEN BURN.
   (A)   Permission.
      (1)   An application for permission to open burn shall be submitted in
writing to Ohio EPA. The applicant shall allow Ohio EPA at least ten working
days to review the permit. Applicant may proceed with burn upon receipt of
written permission from Ohio EPA. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered working days. The application shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (A)(6) and (A)(7) of this section,
such applications shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The quantity or acreage and the nature of the materials to be
burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place;
         (d)   The location of the burning site, including a map showing
distances to residences, populated areas, roadways, air fields, and other
pertinent landmarks; and
         (e)   The methods or actions which will be taken to reduce the
emissions of air contaminants.
      (3)   Permission to open burn shall not be granted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Ohio EPA that open burning is necessary
to the public interest; will be conducted in a time, place, and manner as to
minimize the emission of air contaminants, when atmospheric conditions are
appropriate; and will have no serious detrimental effect upon adjacent
properties or the occupants thereof. The Ohio EPA may impose such conditions as
may be necessary to accomplish the purpose of O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (A)(6) of this section, permission
to open burn must be obtained for each specific project. In emergencies where
public health or environmental quality will be seriously threatened by delay
while written permission is sought, the fire may be set with oral permission of
the Ohio EPA.
      (5)   Violations of any of the conditions set forth by the Ohio EPA in
granting permission to open burn shall be grounds for revocation of such
permission and refusal to grant future permission, as well as for the
imposition of other sanctions provided by law.
      (6)   The Ohio Department of Commerce, Division of State Fire Marshal,
may request permission to open burn on an annual basis for the purpose of
training firefighters on pre-flashover conditions using the Ohio Fire Academy’s
mobile training laboratory at either the academy or at other training sites in
Ohio. The annual application required pursuant to division (A)(1) of this
section shall contain information as required in division (A)(2) of this
section, except the information required in divisions (A)(2)(c) and (A)(2)(d)
of this section need not be provided unless it is available at the time of
submittal of the application. The Academy shall contact the appropriate Ohio
EPA District Office or local air agency at least five working days before each
training session of the date or dates when the training session will take place
and its location. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall not be considered
a working day.
      (7)   For open burning defined under paragraph §
93.27(D)(2) and O.A.C. 3745-19-04(C)(2), permission to open burn shall not be
granted unless the applicant provides proof of written notice of intent to
demolish received by the appropriate Ohio EPA field office in accordance with
O.A.C. 3745-20-03.
   (B)   Notification.
      (1)   Notification shall be submitted in writing at least ten working
days before the fire is to be set. Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays shall
not be considered a working day. It shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be required by the Ohio EPA.
      (2)   Such notification shall inform the Ohio EPA regarding:
         (a)   The purpose of the proposed burning;
         (b)   The nature and quantities of materials to be burned;
         (c)   The date or dates when such burning will take place; and
         (d)   The location of the burning site.
      (3)   The Ohio EPA, after receiving notification, may determine that the
open burning is not allowed under O.A.C. Chapter 3745-19 and the Ohio EPA shall
notify the applicant to this effect.
(O.A.C. § 3745-19-05)  (`94 Code, § 1511.04)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.29  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS ON OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Generally.  A person shall not cause or allow open burning unless
approved in accordance with this code and any other applicable federal, state
and local laws and regulations.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BONFIRE.  An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purpose.
      OPEN BURNING.  The burning of any materials wherein products of
combustion are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a
stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.  For the purpose of this definition,
a chamber shall be regarded as enclosed when, during the time combustion
occurs, only apertures, ducts, stacks, flues or chimneys necessary to provide
combustion air and permit the escape of exhaust gas are open.
      RECREATIONAL FIRE.  Any intentionally created fire outside of a building,
but shall not include a small fire contained in a noncommercial clean-burning
enclosed cooking apparatus, commonly known as a grill, which is fueled by
charcoal, propane, natural gas, alcohol or similar fuel and used for the
preparation of food.
   (C)   Allowable burning.  Open burning shall be allowed without prior
notification to the code official for recreational fires, highway safety
flares, smudge pots and similar occupational needs.
   (D)   Approval required.  Open burning shall be allowed after obtaining
approval from the code official for recognized silvicultural or range or
wildlife management practices, prevention or control of disease or pests,
providing heat for outdoor workers, and a bonfire.
      (1)   Application.  Applications for open burning shall be submitted in
writing at least ten days before the fire is set and shall be in such form and
contain such information as required by the code official.  Such application
shall contain, as a minimum, information regarding: the purpose of the proposed
burning, the nature and quantities of material to be burned, the date when such
burning will take place, the location of the burning site, and the on-site
fire-extinguishing equipment to be provided.
      (2)   Authorization.  Open burning shall be permitted with prior
notification to the code official and upon receipt of written permission from
the jurisdictional Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) authority, provided
that any conditions specified in the permission are followed for:
         (a)   Disposal of hazardous or toxic material where the EPA determines
that there is no practical alternative method of disposal.
         (b)   Instruction in methods of fire fighting or for research in
control of fires, in emergency or other extraordinary circumstances for any
purpose determined to be necessary by the EPA.
         (c)   Disposal of landscape waste except residential and agricultural
waste.
         (d)   Recognized agricultural or horticultural management purposes to
maintain or increase the quantity or quality of agricultural or horticultural
production.
      (3)   Where EPA permission is not applicable.  Where the jurisdictional
EPA written permission is not applicable, the code official shall give written
permission provided that approved fire safety requirements and emission
standards will be met.
      (4)   Open burning prohibited.  The code official shall prohibit open
burning that will be offensive or objectionable due to smoke or odor emissions
when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous.
The code official shall order the extinguishment, by the permit holder or the
Fire Department, of any open burning which creates or adds to a hazardous or
objectionable situation.
   (E)   Location.  The location for any open burning shall not be less than 50
feet from any structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from
spreading to within 50 feet of any structure.  Fires in approved containers
shall be permitted, provided that such fires are not less than 15 feet from any
structure.
   (F)   Materials.  Open burning shall not be utilized for waste disposal
purposes, shall be of the minimum size for the intended purpose, and the fuel
shall be chosen to minimize the generation and emission of air contaminants.
   (G)   Attendance.  Any open burning shall be constantly attended until the
fire is extinguished.  At least one portable fire extinguisher with a minimum
4-A rating, two portable fire extinguishers with a minimum 2-A rating each, or
other approved on-site fire extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, water
barrel, garden hose or water truck, shall be available for immediate
utilization.
   (H)   Bonfire size and duration.  A bonfire shall not be more than five feet
by five feet by five feet in dimension and shall not burn longer than three
hours.  The maximum size and duration of a bonfire shall not be increased by
the code official unless it is determined that fire safety requirements of the
situation and the desirable duration of burning warrant the increase.
      (1)   Material.  Fuel for a bonfire shall consist only of seasoned dry
firewood and shall be ignited with a small quantity of paper.  The fire shall
not be utilized for waste disposal purposes, and the fuel shall be chosen to
minimize the generation of air contaminants.
      (2)   Permits.  All permits shall be requested by and issued to the owner
of the land upon which the bonfire is to be kindled.
   (I)   (1)   No person shall start or permit to burn on any property within
this village a recreational fire where the smoke or odor from that fire shall
cause inconvenience to any person of ordinary sensibilities on any adjoining or
nearby property including public streets. Inconvenience shall include visible
smoke or persistent odors within a house or in the yard of adjoining or nearby
properties requiring the closing of windows to avoid such smoke or odors or the
persistence of odors which permeate adjoining property so as to linger after
the fire is out.
      (2)   No recreational fire shall be permitted within 20 feet of any
property line of the property where the fire is located. No recreational fire
shall be permitted within ten feet of any house, garage, building, or any
flammable structure unless the fire is contained in a metal, ceramic or other
fire-proof device.
      (3)   Recreational fires shall have a total fuel area of three feet or
less in diameter and two feet or less in height (Ohio EPA 3745-19-03) and
contained in a ring.
      (4)   All recreational fires shall be attended by a person of at least 18
years of age at all times and there shall be present in the immediate vicinity
of the fire at least one portable and fully operable fire extinguisher or other
fire suppression equipment such as an adequate supply of sand or water or a
connected and operable water hose. Recreational fires shall only burn untreated
wood and shall not be used for the purpose of burning trash, garbage, plastic
or other waste.
      (5)   When it shall come to the attention of the Village Police
Department or Township Fire Department that a recreational fire exists which is
in violation of any provision of this section, a police officer shall advise
the property owner or occupant of the violation and may observe the adjustment
necessary to bring the fire within the requirements of this section. In the
event that the property owner or occupant fails to bring the fire into
compliance with this section, or in the event the police are contacted and
determine that a second or continued violation of the provisions of this
section at the same location has occurred within any 12 consecutive hour
period, the owner or occupant shall be deemed in violation of this section and
a citation shall be issued. The requirement that a warning be issued prior to
the issuance of a citation shall not apply to any person who has been issued a
warning in the preceding 30 days.
      (6)   Whoever violates any provision of this section, after being advised
of the violation as provided in division (I)(5) of this section, shall be
guilty of a minor misdemeanor and upon a second or subsequent violation within
one year of the first conviction a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In
addition, if a police officer or the Fire Department determines upon inspection
that the fire presents a risk of spreading, it shall immediately be
extinguished.
      (7)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to amend Chapter 1501, Ohio
Fire Code, or this chapter, but in the event of a conflict with the provisions
in those chapters, the more restrictive regulations shall control.
(`94 Code, § 1511.05)  (Ord. 3-2016, passed 2-23-16)  Penalty, see §
93.99
FIREWORKS
§ 93.40  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   1.3G FIREWORKS.  Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the United
States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.3" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   1.4G FIREWORKS.  Consumer fireworks consistent with regulations of the
United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“Division 1.4" in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
   BEER and INTOXICATING LIQUOR.  Have the same meaning as in R.C. § 4301.01.
   BOOBY TRAP.  A small tube that has a string protruding from both ends that
has a friction- sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling the ends
of the string.
   CIGARETTE LOAD.  A small wooden peg that is coated with a small quantity of
explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISCHARGE SITE. An area immediately surrounding the mortars used to fire
aerial shells.
   FIREWORKS.  Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation,
except ordinary matches and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT.  Any action or omission that occurs at a fireworks
exhibition that results in injury or death, or a substantial risk of injury or
death, to any person, and that involves either of the following:
      (1)   The handling or other use, or the results of the handling or other
use, of fireworks or associated equipment or other materials;
      (2)   The failure of any person to comply with any applicable requirement
imposed by this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743, or any applicable rule adopted
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3743.
   FIREWORKS INCIDENT SITE.  A discharge site or other location at a fireworks
exhibition where a fireworks incident occurs, a location where an injury or
death associated with a fireworks incident occurs, or a location where evidence
of a fireworks incident or an injury or death associated with a fireworks
incident is found
   FIREWORKS PLANT.  All buildings and other structures in which the
manufacturing of fireworks, or the storage or sale of manufactured fireworks by
a manufacturer, takes place.
   HIGHWAY.  Any public street, road, alley, way, lane or other public
thoroughfare.
   LICENSED BUILDING.  A building on the licensed premises of a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks that is approved for occupancy by the
building official having jurisdiction.
   LICENSED EXHIBITOR OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED EXHIBITOR.  A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55.
   LICENSED MANUFACTURER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED MANUFACTURER.  A person
licensed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08.
   LICENSED PREMISES.  The real estate upon which a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler of fireworks conducts business.
   LICENSED WHOLESALER OF FIREWORKS or LICENSED WHOLESALER.  A person licensed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.15 through 3743.21.
   LIST OF LICENSED EXHIBITORS. The list required by R.C. §3743.51(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED MANUFACTURERS. The list required by R.C. §3743.03(C).
   LIST OF LICENSED WHOLESALERS. The list required by R.C. §3743.16(C).
   MANUFACTURING OF FIREWORKS.  The making of fireworks from raw materials,
none of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, or the processing of
fireworks.
   NAVIGABLE WATERS. Any body of water susceptible of being used in its
ordinary condition as a highway of commerce over which trade and travel is or
may be conducted in the customary modes, but does not include a body of water
that is not capable of navigation by barges, tugboats, and other large vessels.
   NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS.
      (1)   Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
including but not limited to booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers, and
snappers;
      (2)   Snakes or glow worms;
      (3)   Smoke devices;
      (4)   Trick matches.
   PARTY POPPER.  A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than 16
milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition that is ignited by
pulling a string protruding from the item, and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
   PROCESSING OF FIREWORKS.  The making of fireworks from materials all or part
of which in and of themselves constitute fireworks, but does not include the
mere packaging or repackaging of fireworks.
   RAILROAD.  Any railway or railroad that carries freight or passengers for
hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs, and sidings installed and
primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.
   RETAIL SALE or SELL AT RETAIL.  A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to use the fireworks and not to resell them.
   SMOKE DEVICE.  A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition that,
upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
   SNAKE or GLOW WORM.  A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
   SNAPPER.  A small paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand and that, when dropped,
implodes.
   STORAGE LOCATION. A single parcel or contiguous parcels of real estate
approved by the Ohio Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §3743.04(I) or R.C. §3743.17
(F) that are separate from a licensed premises containing a retail showroom,
and which parcel or parcels a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler of fireworks
may use only for the distribution, possession, and storage of fireworks in
accordance with this chapter.
   TRICK MATCH.  A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity
of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   WHOLESALE SALE or SELL AT WHOLESALE.  A sale of fireworks to a purchaser who
intends to resell the fireworks so purchased.
   WIRE SPARKLER.  A sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated with a
nonexplosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon ignition
and that contains no more than 100 grams of this mixture.
(R.C. § 3743.01)  (`94 Code, § 1519.01)
§ 93.41  POSSESSION, SALE, AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person shall possess fireworks in this municipality or shall
possess for sale or sell fireworks in this municipality, except a licensed
manufacturer of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.02 through 3743.08, a
licensed wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.15 through
3743.21, a shipping permit holder as authorized by R.C. § 3743.40, an out-of-
state resident as authorized by R.C. § 3743.44, a resident of this state as
authorized by R.C. § 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as
authorized by R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55, or as authorized by any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of these statutes,
and except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Except as provided in R.C. § 3743.80 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and except for licensed exhibitors of fireworks authorized
to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.50 through 3743.55
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, no person shall discharge,
ignite, or explode any fireworks in this municipality.
   (C)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.
   (D)   No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under 18 years
of age. No person under 18 years of age shall enter a fireworks sales showroom
unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible adult. No person under 18 years of age shall touch or possess
fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 3743.44, no person, other than
a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or shipping
permit holder shall possess 1.3G fireworks in this municipality.
(R.C. § 3743.65(A) - (E))  (`94 Code, § 1519.04)  Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offense for disabling a fire suppression system, see R.C. § 3743.65
(F)
§ 93.42  PERMIT TO USE FIREWORKS.
   (A)   An exhibitor of fireworks licensed under R.C. §§ 3743.50 through
3743.55 who wishes to conduct a public fireworks exhibition shall apply for
approval to conduct the exhibition to the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer
and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
having jurisdiction over the premises.
   (B)   The approval required by division (A) of this section shall be
evidenced by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief
or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, signing a permit for the
exhibition.  Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public
fireworks exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the State Fire Marshal
or, if available, from the Fire Chief, a fire prevention officer, the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer.
   (C)   Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of
the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect
the premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that,
in fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks. 
Each applicant shall show his or her license as an exhibitor of fireworks to
the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and the Police Chief or
other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to
conduct a public fireworks exhibition only if satisfied, based on the
inspection, that the premises on which the exhibition will be conducted allow
the exhibitor to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) and that the applicant is, in fact, a
licensed exhibitor of fireworks.  The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in
consultation with  the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer or with the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately prior to the
exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the rules, and may
revoke a permit for noncompliance with the rules.
   (E)   If the Legislative Authority has prescribed a fee for the issuance of
a permit for a public fireworks exhibition, the Fire Chief or fire prevention
officer and Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
their designee, shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor pays the requisite
fee.
   (F)   Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at
least one million dollars with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or fire
prevention officer and to the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments
that may be rendered against the exhibitor on account of injury, death, or loss
to person or property emanating from the fireworks exhibitor, or proof of
insurance coverage of at least one million dollars for liability arising from
injury, death, or loss of persons or property emanating from the fireworks
exhibition.  The Legislative Authority may require the exhibitor to provide an
indemnity bond or proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those
required by this division.  The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or their designee,
shall not issue a permit until the exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the
insurance coverage required by this division or by the Legislative Authority.
   (G)   Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief
law enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
municipality, and identify the certified fire safety inspector, Fire Chief, or
fire prevention officer who will be present before, during and after the
exhibition, where appropriate.  A copy of each permit issued shall be forwarded
by the Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and by the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the State Fire Marshal.  A
permit is not transferable or assignable.
   (H)   The Fire Chief or fire prevention officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or designee of the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
for fireworks exhibitions.  In this list, the Fire Chief, fire prevention
officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or
designee of the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
shall list the name of the exhibitor, his or her license number, the premises
on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the exhibition,
and the number and political subdivision designation of the permit issued to
the exhibitor for the exhibition.
   (I)   The Legislative Authority shall require that a certified fire safety
inspector, Fire Chief or fire prevention officer be present before, during and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified fire safety inspector,
Fire Chief or fire prevention officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter and Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743.
(R.C. § 3743.54)  (`94 Code, § 1519.02) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
Statutory reference:
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 93.43  MANUFACTURING OR WHOLESALE SALE WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
knowingly fail to comply with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3743.05 and 3743.18 or the requirements of R.C. §§ 3743.06
and 3743.19.
   (B)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to maintain complete inventory, wholesale sale and retail records as
required by R.C. §§ 3743.07 and 3743.20, or to permit an inspection of these
records or the premises of a fireworks plant or the wholesaler pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08 and 3743.21.
   (C)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.01(B)(1) and 3743.21(B)(1) within the specified period of time.
   (D)   No licensed manufacturer or licensed wholesaler of fireworks shall
fail to comply with an order of the State Fire Marshal issued pursuant to R.C.
§§ 3743.08(B)(2) and 3743.21(B)(2) until the nonconformities are eliminated,
corrected or otherwise remedied or the 72 hour period specified in those
divisions has expired, whichever occurs first.
   (E)   No person shall smoke or shall carry a pipe, cigarette, or cigar, or a
match, lighter, other flame-producing item, or open flame on, or shall carry a
concealed source of ignition into, the premises of a fireworks plant or on the
premises of a wholesaler of fireworks, except as smoking is authorized in
specified lunchrooms or restrooms by a manufacturer or wholesaler pursuant to
R.C. § 3743.06(C) or R.C. § 3743.19(D).
   (F)   No person shall have possession or control of, or be under the
influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance while on
the premises of the fireworks plant or on the premises of a wholesaler of
fireworks.
(R.C. §§ 3743.60(E) - (J), 3743.61(E) - (J)) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. §§ 3743.60(A) - (D) and 3743.61(A) - (D)
§ 93.44  PURCHASERS TO COMPLY WITH LAW; UNAUTHORIZED PURCHASES.
   (A)   No person who resides in another state and purchases fireworks in this
municipality shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this municipality
unless the person complies with R.C. § 3743.44.
   (B)   No person who resides in another state and who purchases fireworks in
this municipality shall obtain possession of fireworks in this municipality
other than from a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler, or fail, when
transporting 1.3G fireworks, to transport them directly out of the state within
72 hours after the time of their purchase.  No such person shall give or sell
to any other person in this municipality fireworks that the person has acquired
in this state.
   (C)   No person who resides in this state and purchases fireworks in this
municipality shall obtain possession of the fireworks in this municipality
unless the person complies with R.C. § 3743.45.
   (D)   No person who resides in this state and who purchases fireworks in
this municipality under R.C. § 3743.45 shall obtain possession of the fireworks
in this municipality other than from a licensed manufacturer or licensed
wholesaler, or fail, when transporting the fireworks, to transport them
directly out of the state within 48 hours after the time of their purchase.  No
such person shall give or sell to any other person in this municipality
fireworks that the person has acquired in this state.
(R.C. § 3743.63) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.45  EXHIBITION WITHOUT A LICENSE; PROHIBITIONS FOR EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant
to R.C. § 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with R.C. § 3743.53(C) and (D).
   (B)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks
exhibition unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to R.C.
§ 3743.54 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, or if a permit so
secured is revoked by a Fire Chief or fire prevention officer, in consultation
with a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or with a
designee of a Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
pursuant to those sections.
   (C)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at
a fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with R.C. §§ 3743.54 and
3743.55, or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   (D)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer, or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.
   (E)   No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the State Fire Marshal under R.C. § 3743.56.
(R.C. § 3743.64(C) - (G))  (`94 Code, § 1519.03) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony provisions, see R.C. § 3743.64(A), (B), (H)
   Notice of fireworks incident, see R.C. § 3743.541
§ 93.46  UNAUTHORIZED TRANSPORTATION OR SHIPPING.
   (A)   No person shall transport fireworks in this municipality except in
accordance with the rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal pursuant to R.C. §
3743.58.
   (B)   As used in this division, FIREWORKS includes only 1.3G and 1.4G
fireworks.  No person shall ship fireworks into this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the person possesses a valid shipping
permit issued under R.C. § 3743.40, and the fireworks are shipped directly to
the holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.03, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
   (C)   No person shall ship fireworks within this municipality by mail,
parcel post, or common carrier unless the fireworks are shipped directly to the
holder of a license issued under R.C. § 3743.01, 3743.16 or 3743.51.
(R.C. § 3743.66) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.47  APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter does not apply to the following:
   (A)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage, or use in
emergency situations of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation, or highway use;
   (B)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes, or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;
   (C)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals for ceremonial purposes;
   (D)   The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use
by, or the sale to the armed forces of the United States and the militia of
this state of pyrotechnic devices;
   (E)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which paper or plastic
caps containing 0.25 grains or less of explosive material are used, provided
that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with a cap
when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;
   (F)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms, or model rockets and
model rocket motors designed, sold, and used for the purpose of propelling
recoverable aero models;
   (G)   The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers.
   (H)   The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge,
and that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges; provided, that
the exhibition complies with all of the following:
      (1)   No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;
      (2)   The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than 200
feet;
      (3)   The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department of
the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with respect to
the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in the exhibition.
(R.C. § 3743.80)  (`94 Code, § 1519.05)
§ 93.48  ARREST OF OFFENDER; SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF FIREWORKS; DISTRIBUTION
OF FINES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or a certified fire
safety inspector may arrest, or may cause the arrest of, any person whom he or
she finds in the act of violating, or who he or she has reasonable cause to
believe has violated, any provision of this subchapter.  Any arrest shall be
made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
arrests by law enforcement officers.
   (B)   If the Fire Marshal, an assistant fire marshal, or certified fire
safety inspector has probable cause to believe that fireworks are being
manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in violation of this
subchapter, he or she may seize the fireworks.  Any seizure of fireworks shall
be made in accordance with statutory and constitutional provisions governing
searches and seizures by law enforcement officers.  The Fire Marshal's office
or certified fire safety inspector's office shall impound at the site or safely
keep seized fireworks pending the time they are no longer needed as evidence. 
A sample of the seized fireworks is sufficient for evidentiary purposes.  The
remainder of the seized fireworks may be disposed of pursuant to an order from
a court of competent jurisdiction after notice and a hearing.
   (C)   Fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in
violation of this subchapter shall be forfeited by the offender.  The Fire
Marshal's office or certified fire safety inspector's office shall dispose of
seized fireworks pursuant to the procedures specified in R.C. §§ 2981.11 to
2981.13 for the disposal of forfeited property by law enforcement agencies, and
the Fire Marshal or that office is not liable for claims for the loss of or
damages to the seized fireworks.
   (D)   This section does not affect the authority of peace officers, as
defined in R.C. § 2935.01, to make arrests for violations of this subchapter or
to seize fireworks manufactured, sold, possessed, transported, or used in
violation of this subchapter.
   (E)   Any fines imposed for a violation of this subchapter relating to the
sale, purchase, possession, or discharge of fireworks shall be distributed as
set forth in R.C. § 3743.68(D).
(R.C. § 3743.68)
§ 93.49  SAFETY REQUIREMENTS FOR FIREWORKS SHOWROOM STRUCTURES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as described in division (A)(2) of this section, all
retail sales of 1.4G fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall
only occur from an approved retail sales showroom on a licensed premises or
from a representative sample showroom as described in this section on a
licensed premises. For the purposes of this section, a retail sale includes the
transfer of the possession of the 1.4G fireworks from the licensed manufacturer
or wholesaler to the purchaser of the fireworks.
      (2)   Sales of 1.4G fireworks to a licensed exhibitor for a properly
permitted exhibition shall occur in accordance with the provisions of the Ohio
Revised Code and rules adopted by the State Fire Marshal under R.C. Chapter
119. Such rules shall specify, at a minimum, that the licensed exhibitor holds
a license under R.C. § 3743.51, that the exhibitor possesses a valid exhibition
permit issued in accordance with R.C. § 3743.54, and that the fireworks shipped
are to be used at the specifically permitted exhibition.
   (B)   All wholesale sales of fireworks by a licensed manufacturer or
wholesaler shall only occur from a licensed premises to persons who intend to
resell the fireworks purchased at wholesale. A wholesale sale by a licensed
manufacturer or wholesaler may occur as follows:
      (1)   The direct sale and shipment of fireworks to a person outside of
this state;
      (2)   From an approved retail sales showroom as described in this
section;
      (3)   From a representative sample showroom as described in this section;
      (4)   By delivery of wholesale fireworks to a purchaser at a licensed
premises outside of a structure or building on that premises. All other
portions of the wholesale sales transaction may occur at any location on a
licensed premises.
      (5)   Any other method as described in rules adopted by the Fire Marshal
under R.C. Chapter 119.
   (C)   (1)   A licensed manufacturer or wholesaler shall only sell 1.4G
fireworks from a representative sample showroom or a retail sales showroom.
Each licensed premises shall only contain one sales structure.
      (2)   A representative sample showroom shall consist of a structure
constructed and maintained in accordance with the Nonresidential Building Code
adopted under R.C. Chapter 3781 and the Fire Code adopted under R.C. § 3737.82
for a use and occupancy group that permits mercantile sales. A representative
sample showroom shall not contain any pyrotechnics, pyrotechnic materials,
fireworks, explosives, explosive materials, or any similar hazardous materials
or substances. A representative sample showroom shall be used only for the
public viewing of fireworks product representations, including paper materials,
packaging materials, catalogs, photographs, or other similar product
depictions. The delivery of product to a purchaser of fireworks at a licensed
premises that has a representative sample structure shall not occur inside any
structure on a licensed premises. Such product delivery shall occur on the
licensed premises in a manner prescribed by rules adopted by the State Fire
Marshal pursuant to R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   If a manufacturer or wholesaler elects to conduct sales from a
retail sales showroom, the showroom structures, to which the public may have
any access and in which employees are required to work, on all licensed
premises, shall comply with the following safety requirements:
         (a)   A fireworks showroom that is constructed or upon which expansion
is undertaken on and after June 30, 1997, shall be equipped with interlinked
fire detection, fire suppression, smoke exhaust, and smoke evacuation systems
that are approved by the Superintendent of Industrial Compliance in the
Department of Commerce.
         (b)   A fireworks showroom that first begins to operate on or after
June 30, 1997, and to which the public has access for retail purposes shall not
exceed 5,000 square feet in floor area.
         (c)   A newly constructed or an existing fireworks showroom structure
that exists on September 23, 2008, but that, on or after September 23, 2008, is
altered or added to in a manner requiring the submission of plans, drawings,
specifications, or data pursuant to R.C. § 3791.04, shall comply with a graphic
floor plan layout that is approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent
of Industrial Compliance showing width of aisles, parallel arrangement of
aisles to exits, number of exits per wall, maximum occupancy load, evacuation
plan for occupants, height of storage or display of merchandise, and other
information as may be required by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of
Industrial Compliance.
         (d)   A fireworks showroom structure that exists on June 30, 1997,
shall be in compliance on or after June 30, 1997, with floor plans showing
occupancy load limits and internal circulation and egress patterns that are
approved by the State Fire Marshal and Superintendent of Industrial Compliance,
and that are submitted under seal as required by R.C. § 3791.04.
   (D)   The safety requirements established in division (C) of this section
are not subject to any variance, waiver, or exclusion pursuant to this chapter
or any applicable building code.
(R.C. § 3743.25)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty is not specifically provided shall be subject to the penalty as
provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Fire code penalties.
      (1)   Criminal Penalties.
         (a)   Whoever violates §
93.04(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(B))
         (b)   Whoever violates §§
93.04(B) or
93.05 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3737.99(C))
         (c)   Whoever violates §§
93.06 or
93.09 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. (R.C. § 3737.99(D))
         (d)   Whoever violates §§
93.07 or
93.10 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 3737.99(E))
      (2)   Civil Penalties.
         (a)   Any person who has received a citation for a serious violation
of the Ohio Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it, shall be assessed a
civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each such violation.
         (b)   Any person who has received a citation for a violation of the
Ohio Fire Code or any order issued pursuant to it, and such violation is
specifically determined not to be of a serious nature, may be assessed a civil
penalty of not more than $1,000 for each such violation.
         (c)   Any person who fails to correct a violation for which a citation
has been issued within a period permitted for its correction, may be assessed a
civil penalty of not more than $1,000 for each day during which such failure or
violation continues.
         (d)   Any person who violates any of the posting requirements, as
prescribed by R.C. § 3737.42(C), shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $1,000 for each violation.
         (e)   Due consideration to the appropriateness of the penalty with
respect to the gravity of the violation, the good faith of the person being
charged, and the history of the previous violations shall be given whenever a
penalty is assessed under this chapter.
         (f)   For purposes of this section, a serious violation shall be
considered to exist if there is a substantial probability that an occurrence
causing death or serious physical harm to persons could result from a condition
which exists, or from one or more practices, means, methods, operations or
processes which have been adopted or are in use, unless the person did not and
could not with the exercise of reasonable diligence, know of the presence of
the violation.
         (g)   Civil penalties imposed by this chapter shall be paid to the
municipal chief fiscal officer for deposit into the general revenue fund. Such
penalties may be recovered in a civil action in the name of the municipality
brought in the Court of Common Pleas.
(R.C. § 3737.51(B) to (H))  (`94 Code, § 1501.99)
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of
this section, whoever violates any provisions of §§
93.40 through
93.47 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 3743.60(I) or R.C. § 3743.61(I), or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, a violation of §
93.43(E) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates § 91.06(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. In addition to any other penalties that may be imposed on a licensed
exhibitor of fireworks under this division and unless the third sentence of
this division applies, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as
an assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be suspended. If the violation of §
91.06(A) results in serious physical harm to persons or serious physical harm
to property, the person’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks or as an
assistant exhibitor of fireworks shall be revoked.
(R.C. §3743.99(C), (D))  (`94 Code, §1519.99)
CHAPTER 94:  INTOXICATING LIQUORS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Exemptions from chapter
   
94.03   Restrictions applicable to sale of beer and intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises
   
94.04   Restrictions on sale of beer and liquor
   
94.05   Permit required; activities prohibited without permit
   
94.06   Illegal transportation prohibited
   
94.07   Open container prohibited; exception
   
94.08   Underage person shall not purchase intoxicating liquor or beer
   
94.09   Prohibitions; minors under 18 years; low-alcohol beverages
   
94.10   Misrepresentation to obtain alcoholic beverage for a minor prohibited
   
94.11   Misrepresentation by a minor under 21 years
   
94.12   Sale to underage persons prohibited
   
94.13   Posting of card
   
94.14   Good faith acceptances of spurious identification
   
94.15   Consumption in motor vehicle prohibited
   
94.16   Hours of sale or consumption
   
94.17   Obstructing search of premises prohibited
   
94.18   Illegal possession of intoxicating liquor prohibited
   
94.19   Sale or possession of diluted liquor and refilled containers prohibited
   
94.20   Keeping place where beer or intoxicating liquors are sold in violation
of law
   
94.21   Intoxicating liquors shall not be sold in brothels
   
94.22   Use of intoxicating liquor in a public dance hall prohibited;
exceptions
   
94.23   Poisonously adulterated liquors
   
94.24   Tavern keeper permitting rioting or drunkenness
   
94.25   Notice of action to prohibit liquor business
   
94.26   Procedure when injunction violated
   
94.27   Liquor transaction scans
   
94.28   Affirmative defenses
   
94.29   Alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, implied consent, see
§§
73.01 and 73.011
Statutory reference:
   Administrative regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4301:1-1
   Liquor permits, see R.C. Chapter 4303
   Local option elections, see R.C. §§ 4301.32 et seq.
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, whether rectified or diluted with water or not,
whatever its origin may be, and includes synthetic ethyl alcohol. The term does
not include denatured alcohol and wood alcohol.
   AT RETAIL. For use or consumption by the purchaser and not for resale.
   BEER.
      (1)   Includes all beverages brewed or fermented wholly or in part from
malt products and containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
      (2)   Beer, regardless of the percent of alcohol by volume, is not
intoxicating liquor for purposes of this code, the Ohio Revised Code, or any
rules adopted under it.
   CIDER. All liquids that are fit to use for beverage purposes that contain
0.5% of alcohol by volume, but not more than 6% of alcohol by weight that are
made through the normal alcoholic fermentation of the juice of sound, ripe
apples, including, without limitation, flavored, sparkling, or carbonated cider
and cider made from pure condensed apple must.
   CLUB. A corporation or association of individuals organized in good faith
for social, recreational, benevolent, charitable, fraternal, political,
patriotic, or athletic purposes, which is the owner, lessor, or occupant of a
permanent building or part of a permanent building operated solely for such
purposes, membership in which entails the prepayment of regular dues, and
includes the place so operated.
   COMMUNITY FACILITY. Means either of the following:
      (1)   Any convention, sports or entertainment facility or complex, or any
combination of these, that is used by or accessible to the general public and
that is owned or operated in whole or in part by the state, a state agency, or
a political subdivision of the state or that is leased from, or located on
property owned by or leased from, the state, a state agency, a political
subdivision of the state, or a convention facilities authority created pursuant
to R.C. § 351.02;
      (2)   An area designated as a community entertainment district pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.80.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS ALCOHOL AND BEVERAGE CABINET. A closed container, either
refrigerated, in whole or in part, or nonrefrigerated, access to the interior
of which is restricted by means of a device that requires the use of a key,
magnetic card, or similar device and from which beer, intoxicating liquor,
other beverages, or food may be sold.
   HOTEL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01, subject to the exceptions
mentioned in R.C. § 3731.03.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. All liquids and compounds, other than beer,
containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are fit to use for beverage
purposes, from whatever source and by whatever process produced, by whatever
name called, and whether they are medicated, proprietary, or patented. The
terms include cider and alcohol, and all solids and confections which contain
0.5% or more of alcohol by volume.
   LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGE. Any brewed or fermented malt product or any product
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products that contains either no alcohol or less than 0.5% of alcohol by
volume. The beverages described in this definition do not include a soft drink
such as root beer, birch beer, or ginger beer.
   MANUFACTURE. All processes by which beer or intoxicating liquor is produced,
whether by distillation, rectifying, fortifying, blending, fermentation,
brewing, or in any other manner.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person engaged in the business of manufacturing beer or
intoxicating liquor.
   MIXED BEVERAGES. Include bottled and prepared cordials, cocktails,
highballs, and solids and confections that are obtained by mixing any type of
whiskey, neutral spirits, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits with, or over,
carbonated or plain water, pure juices from flowers and plants, and other
flavoring materials. The completed product shall contain not less than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume. The phrase
includes the contents of a pod.
   NIGHTCLUB. A place habitually operated for profit, where food is served for
consumption on the premises, and one or more forms of amusement are provided or
permitted for a consideration that may be in the form of a cover charge or may
be included in the price of the food and beverages, or both, purchased by
patrons.
   PERSON. Includes firms and corporations.
   PHARMACY. An establishment as defined in R.C. § 4729.01, that is under the
management or control of a licensed pharmacist in accordance with R.C. §
4729.27.
   POD. Means a sealed capsule made from plastic, glass, aluminum, or a
combination thereof to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The capsule contains intoxicating liquor of more than 21% of
alcohol by volume.
      (2)   The capsule also contains a concentrated flavoring mixture.
      (3)   The contents of the capsule are not readily accessible or intended
for consumption unless certain manufacturer’s processing instructions are
followed.
      (4)   The instructions include releasing the contents of the capsule
through a machine specifically designed to process the contents.
      (5)   After being properly processed according to the manufacturer’s
instructions, the final product produced from the capsule contains not less
than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume.
   RESTAURANT. A place located in a permanent building provided with space and
accommodations wherein, in consideration of the payment of money, hot meals are
habitually prepared, sold, and served at noon and evening, as the principal
business of the place. The term does not include pharmacies, confectionery
stores, lunch stands, nightclubs, and filling stations.
   SALE and SELL. The exchange, barter, gift, offer for sale, sale,
distribution, and delivery of any kind, and the transfer of title or possession
of beer and intoxicating liquor either by constructive or actual delivery by
any means or devices whatever, including the sale of beer or intoxicating
liquor by means  of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet pursuant
to R.C. § 4301.21. Such terms do not include the mere solicitation of orders
for beer or intoxicating liquor from the holders of permits issued by the
Division of Liquor Control authorizing the sale of the beer or intoxicating
liquor, but no solicitor shall solicit any orders until the solicitor has been
registered with the Division pursuant to R.C. § 4303.25.
   SALES AREA OR TERRITORY. An exclusive geographic area or territory that is
assigned to a particular A or B permit holder and that either has one or more
political subdivisions as its boundaries or consists of an area of land with
readily identifiable geographic boundaries. The term does not include, however,
any particular retail location in an exclusive geographic area or territory
that had been assigned to another A or B permit holder before April 9, 2001.
   SEALED CONTAINER. Any container having a capacity of not more than 128 fluid
ounces, the opening of which is closed to prevent the entrance of air.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. All intoxicating liquors containing more than 21% of
alcohol by volume. The phrase does not include the contents of a pod.
   VEHICLE. All means of transportation by land, by water, or by air, and
everything made use of in any way for such transportation.
   WHOLESALE DISTRIBUTOR and DISTRIBUTOR. A person engaged in the business of
selling to retail dealers for purposes of resale.
   WINE. All liquids fit to use for beverage purposes containing not less than
0.5% of alcohol by volume and not more than 21% of alcohol by volume, which is
made from the fermented juices of grapes, fruits, or other agricultural
products. Except as provided in R.C. § 4301.01(B)(3), the term does not include
cider.
(R.C. §§ 4301.01, 4301.244)  (`94 Code, § 529.01)
§ 94.02  EXEMPTIONS FROM CHAPTER.
   The provisions of this chapter do not prevent the following:
   (A)   The storage of intoxicating liquor in bonded warehouses, established
in accordance with the Acts of Congress and under the regulation of the United
States, located in the municipality, or the transportation of intoxicating
liquor to or from bonded warehouses of the United States wherever located.
   (B)   A bona fide resident of this state who is the owner of a warehouse
receipt from obtaining or transporting to the resident’s residence for the
resident’s own consumption and not for resale spirituous liquor stored in a
government bonded warehouse in this state or in another state prior to December
1933, subject to such terms as are prescribed by the Division of Liquor
Control.
   (C)   The manufacture of cider from fruit for the purpose of making vinegar,
and nonintoxicating cider and fruit juices for use and sale.
   (D)   A licensed physician or dentist from administering or dispensing
intoxicating liquor or alcohol to a patient in good faith in the actual course
of the practice of the physician’s or dentist’s profession.
   (E)   The sale of alcohol to physicians, dentists, druggists, veterinary
surgeons, manufacturers, hospitals, infirmaries, or medical or educational
institutions using the alcohol for medicinal, mechanical, chemical or
scientific purposes.
   (F)   The sale, gift, or keeping for sale by druggists and others of any of
the medicinal preparations manufactured in accordance with the formulas
prescribed by the United States Pharmacopoeia and National Formulary, patent or
proprietary preparations, and other bona fide medicinal and technical
preparations, which contain no more alcohol than is necessary to hold the
medicinal agents in solution and to preserve the same, which are manufactured
and sold as medicines and not as beverages, are unfit for use for beverage
purposes, and the sale of which does not require the payment of a United States
liquor dealer’s tax.
   (G)   The manufacture and sale of tinctures or of toilet, medicinal and
antiseptic preparations and solutions not intended for internal human use nor
to be sold as beverages, and which are unfit for beverage purposes, if upon the
outside of each bottle, box, or package of which there is printed in English,
conspicuously and legibly, the quantity by volume of alcohol in the preparation
or solution.
   (H)   The manufacture and keeping for sale of the food products known as
flavoring extracts when manufactured and sold for cooking, culinary or
flavoring purposes, and which are unfit for use for beverage purposes.
   (I)   The lawful sale of wood alcohol or of ethyl alcohol for external use
when combined with other substances as to make it unfit for internal use.
   (J)   The manufacture, sale, and transport of ethanol or ethyl alcohol for
use as fuel. As used in this division, ETHANOL has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 122.075.
   (K)   The purchase and importation into the municipality or the purchase at
wholesale from A or B permit holders in this state of beer and intoxicating
liquor for use in manufacturing processes of nonbeverage food products under
terms prescribed by the Division, provided that the terms prescribed by the
Division shall not increase the cost of the beer or intoxicating liquor to any
person, firm or corporation purchasing and importing it into this municipality
or purchasing it from an A or B permit holder for that use.
   (L)   Any resident of this state or any member of the armed forces of the
United States who has attained the age of 21 years from bringing into this
municipality for personal use and not for resale not more than one liter of
spirituous liquor, 4.5 liters of wine, or 288 ounces of beer in any 30-day
period, and the same is free of any tax consent fee when the resident or member
of the armed forces physically possesses and accompanies the spirituous liquor,
wine or beer on returning from a foreign country, another state, or an insular
possession of the United States.
   (M)   Persons at least 21 years of age who collect ceramic commemorative
bottles containing spirituous liquor that have unbroken federal tax stamps on
them from selling or trading the bottles to other collectors. The bottles shall
originally have been purchased at retail from the Division, legally imported
under division (L) of this section, or legally imported pursuant to a supplier
registration issued by the Division. The sales shall be for the purpose of
exchanging a ceramic commemorative bottle between private collectors and shall
not be for the purpose of selling the spirituous liquor for personal
consumption. The sale or exchange authorized by this division shall not occur
on the premises of any permit holder, shall not be made in connection with the
business of any permit holder, and shall not be made in connection with any
mercantile business.
   (N)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor without a liquor permit at a
private residence, not more than five times per calendar year at a residence
address, at an event that has the following characteristics:
      (1)   The event is for a charitable, benevolent, or political purpose,
but shall not include any event the proceeds of which are for the profit or
gain of any individual;
      (2)   The event has in attendance not more than 50 people;
      (3)   The event shall be for a period not to exceed 12 hours;
      (4)   The sale of beer and intoxicating liquor at the event shall not
take place between 2:30 a.m. and 5:30 a.m.;
      (5)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or consume beer or
intoxicating liquor at the event and no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be
sold to any person under 21 years of age at the event; and
      (6)   No person at the event shall sell or furnish beer or intoxicating
liquor to an intoxicated person.
   (O)   The possession or consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor by a
person who is under 21 years of age and who is a student at an accredited
college or university, provided that both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is required to taste and expectorate the beer or
intoxicating liquor for a culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
      (2)   The person is under the direct supervision of the instructor of the
culinary, food service, or hospitality course.
(R.C. § 4301.20)
§ 94.03  RESTRICTIONS APPLICABLE TO SALE OF BEER AND INTOXICATING LIQUOR FOR
CONSUMPTION ON THE PREMISES.
   (A)   The sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
premises is subject to the following restrictions, in addition to those imposed
by the rules and orders of the Division of Liquor Control:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter
4301, beer or intoxicating liquor may be served to a person not seated at a
table unless there is reason to believe that the beer or intoxicating liquor so
served will be consumed by a person under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Beer or intoxicating liquor may be served by a hotel in the room of
a bona fide guest, and may be sold by a hotel holding a D-5a permit, or a hotel
holding a D-3 or D-5 permit that otherwise meets all of the requirements for
holding a D-5a permit, by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage
cabinet that shall be located only in the hotel room of a registered guest.  A
hotel may sell beer or intoxicating liquor as authorized by its permit to a
registered guest by means of a controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet
in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Only a person 21 years of age or older who is a guest registered
to stay in a guestroom shall be provided a key, magnetic card, or other similar
device necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet in that guestroom.
         (b)   The hotel shall comply with R.C. § 4301.22, or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, in connection with the handling, restocking, and
replenishing of the beer and intoxicating liquor in the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet.
         (c)   The hotel shall replenish or restock beer and intoxicating
liquor in any controlled access alcohol and beverage cabinet only during the
hours during which the hotel may serve or sell beer and intoxicating liquor.
         (d)   The registered guest shall verify in writing that the guest has
read and understands the language that shall be posted on the controlled access
alcohol and beverage cabinet as required by division (A)(2)(e) of this section.
         (e)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant
to division (A)(2) of this section shall post on the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet, in conspicuous language, the following notice:
      “The alcoholic beverages contained in this cabinet shall not be removed
from the premises.”
         (f)   The hotel shall maintain a record of each sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor made by the hotel by means of a controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet for any period in which the permit holder is authorized to
hold the permit pursuant to R.C. §§ 4303.26 and 4303.27 and any additional
period during which an applicant exercises its right to appeal a rejection by
the Division of Liquor Control to renew a permit pursuant to R.C. § 4303.271. 
The records maintained by the hotel shall comply with both of the following:
            1.   Include the name, address, age, and signature of each hotel
guest who is provided access by the hotel to a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet pursuant to division (A)(2)(a) of this section;
            2.   Be made available during business hours to authorized agents
of the Division of Liquor Control pursuant to R.C. § 4301.10(A)(6) or to
enforcement agents of the Department of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. §§
5502.13 to 5502.19.
         (g)   The hotel shall observe all other applicable rules adopted by
the Division of Liquor Control and the Liquor Control Commission.
      (3)   The seller shall not require the purchase of food with the purchase
of beer or intoxicating liquor; nor shall the seller of beer or intoxicating
liquor give away food of any kind in connection with the sale of beer or
intoxicating liquor, except as authorized by rule of the state Liquor Control
Commission.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.62(B)(8), the seller
shall not permit the purchaser to remove beer or intoxicating liquor so sold
from the premises.
      (5)   A hotel authorized to sell beer and intoxicating liquor pursuant to
division (A)(2) of this section shall provide a registered guest with the
opportunity to refuse to accept a key, magnetic card, or other similar device
necessary to obtain access to the contents of a controlled access alcohol and
beverage cabinet in that guest room.  If a registered guest refuses to accept
such key, magnetic card, or other similar device, the hotel shall not assess
any charges on the registered guest for use of the controlled access alcohol
and beverage cabinet in that guest room.
(R.C. § 4301.21)
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C)) 
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.04  RESTRICTIONS ON SALE OF BEER AND LIQUOR.
   (A)   Restrictions on sales.  Sales of beer and intoxicating liquor under
all classes of permits and from liquor stores are subject to the following
restrictions, in addition to those imposed by the rules or orders of the state
Division of Liquor Control.
      (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C.
Chapter 4301, no beer or intoxicating liquor shall be sold to any person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   No low-alcohol beverage shall be sold to any person under 18
years of age. No permit issued by the Division shall be suspended, revoked, or
cancelled because of a violation of this division (A)(1)(b).
         (c)   No intoxicating liquor shall be handled by any person under 21
years of age, except that a person 18 years of age or older employed by a
permit holder may handle or sell beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed
containers in connection with wholesale or retail sales, and any person 19
years of age or older employed by a permit holder may handle intoxicating
liquor in open containers when acting in the capacity of a server in a hotel,
restaurant, club, or night club, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, or in the
premises of a D-7 permit holder.  This section does not authorize persons under
21 years of age to sell intoxicating liquor across a bar.  Any person employed
by a permit holder may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in sealed containers
in connection with manufacturing, storage, warehousing, placement, stocking,
bagging, loading, or unloading, and may handle beer or intoxicating liquor in
open containers in connection with cleaning tables or handling empty bottles or
glasses.
      (2)   No permit holder and no agent or employee of a permit holder shall
sell or furnish beer or intoxicating liquor to an intoxicated person.
      (3)   (a)   No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made after 2:30 a.m.
on Sunday, except under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   Intoxicating liquor may be sold on Sunday under authority of a
permit that authorizes Sunday sale.
            2.   Spiritous liquor may be sold on Sunday by any person awarded
an agency contract under R.C. § 4301.17 if the sale of spiritous liquor is
authorized in the applicable precinct as the result of an election on question
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of R.C. § 4301.351 and if the agency contract authorizes the
sale of spiritous liquor on Sunday.
         (b)   This section does not prevent the municipality from adopting a
closing hour for the sale of intoxicating liquor earlier than 2:30 a.m. on
Sunday or to provide that no intoxicating liquor may be sold prior to that hour
on Sunday.
      (4)   (a)   No holder of a permit shall give away any beer or
intoxicating liquor of any kind at any time in connection with the permit
holder’s business. However, with the exception of an A-1-A permit holder that
also has been issued an A-2 or A-2f permit, an A-1-A, A-1c, or D permit holder
may provide to a paying customer not more than a total of four tasting samples
of beer, wine, or spirituous liquor, as authorized by the applicable permit, in
any twenty-four-hour period. The permit holder shall provide the tasting
samples free of charge, at the permit holder’s expense, only to a person who is
21 years of age or older. The person shall consume the tasting samples on the
premises of the permit holder. A distributor is not responsible for the costs
of providing tasting samples authorized under division (A)(4) of this section.
         (b)   As used in division (A)(4) of this section:
            TASTING SAMPLE. Means one of the following, as applicable:
               a.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of beer;
               b.   An amount not to exceed two ounces of wine;
               c.   An amount not to exceed a quarter ounce of spirituous
liquor.
            D PERMIT HOLDER. Means a person that has been issued a D-1, D-2, D-
2x, D-3, D-3a, D-3 x, D-4, D-5, D-5a, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i,
D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-6, or D-7 permit.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no retail permit
holder shall display or permit the display on the outside of any licensed
retail premises, on any lot of ground on which the licensed premises are
situated, or on the exterior of any building of which the licensed premises are
a part, any sign, illustration, or advertisement bearing the name, brand name,
trade name, trademark, designation, or other emblem of, or indicating the
manufacturer, producer, distributor, place of manufacture, production, or
distribution of, any beer or intoxicating liquor. Signs, illustrations, or
advertisements bearing the name, brand name, trade name, trademark,
designation, or other emblem of or indicating the manufacturer, producer,
distributor, place of manufacture, production, or distribution of beer or
intoxicating liquor may be displayed and permitted to be displayed on the
interior or in the show windows of any licensed premises, if the particular
brand or type of product so advertised is actually available for sale on the
premises at the time of that display. The Liquor Control Commission shall
determine by rule the size and character of those signs, illustrations, or
advertisements.
      (6)   No retail permit holder shall possess on the licensed premises any
barrel or other container from which beer is drawn, unless there is attached to
the spigot or other dispensing apparatus the name of the manufacturer of the
product contained in the barrel or other container, provided that, if the beer
is served at a bar, the manufacturer's name or brand shall appear in full view
of the purchaser. The Commission shall regulate the size and character of the
devices provided for in this section.
      (7)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, no sale of any gift
certificate shall be permitted whereby beer or intoxicating liquor of any kind
is to be exchanged for the certificate, unless the gift certificate can be
exchanged only for food, and beer or intoxicating liquor, for on-premises
consumption and the value of the beer or intoxicating liquor does not exceed
more than 30% of the total value of the gift certificate. The sale of gift
certificates for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages shall be
permitted for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for off-premises
consumption. Limitations on the use of a gift certificate for the purchase of
beer, wine, or mixed beverages for off-premises consumption may be expressed by
clearly stamping or typing on the face of the certificate that the certificate
may not be used for the purchase of beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on-
premises consumption.
(R.C. § 4301.22)  (`94 Code, § 529.03)
   (B)   Division (A)(1) not modified or affected. The provisions of R.C. §§
4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially equivalent municipal ordinances,
shall not be deemed to modify or affect division (A)(1) of this section or R.C.
§ 4301.22(A).
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(b) or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(c) or (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(D), (H)) 
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of beer and liquor sales during emergency, see R.C. § 4301.251
§ 94.05  PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. 
      (1)   No person personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
shall manufacture, manufacture for sale, offer, keep, or possess for sale,
furnish or sell, or solicit the purchase or sale of any beer or intoxicating
liquor in this state, or transport, import, or cause to be transported or
imported any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in or into this municipality
for delivery, use or sale, unless the person has fully complied with R.C.
Chapters 4301 and 4303 or is the holder of a permit issued by the Division of
Liquor Control and in force at the time.
      (2)   No manufacturer, supplier, wholesale distributor, broker, or
retailer of beer or intoxicating liquor, or other person shall employ, retain,
or otherwise utilize any person in this state to act as an employee, agent,
solicitor, or salesperson, or act in any other representative capacity to sell,
solicit, take orders, or receive offers to purchase or expressions of interest
to purchase beer or intoxicating liquor from any person, at any location other
than a liquor permit premises, except as specifically authorized by R.C.
Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 or rules adopted thereunder. No function,
event, or party shall take place at any location other than a liquor permit
premises where any person acts in any manner to sell, solicit, take orders, or
receive offers to purchase or expressions of intent to purchase beer or
intoxicating liquor to or from any person, except as specifically authorized by
R.C. Chapter 4301 or R.C. Chapter 4303 Code or rules adopted thereunder.
(R.C. § 4303.25)  (`94 Code, § 529.05)
   (B)   Activities prohibited without permit.
      (1)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control,
in force at the time, and authorizing the manufacture of beer or intoxicating
liquor, or who is not an agent or employee of the Department authorized to
manufacture beer or intoxicating liquor, shall manufacture any beer or
intoxicating liquor for sale, or shall manufacture spirituous liquor.
      (2)   No person, personally or by the person’s clerk, agent, or employee,
who is not the holder of an A, B, C, D, E, F, G, I, or S permit issued by the
Department, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale of beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, or who is not an agent or employee of the
Department or the Tax Commissioner authorized to sell beer, intoxicating
liquor, or alcohol, shall sell, keep, or possess beer, intoxicating liquor, or
alcohol for sale to any persons other than those authorized by this chapter and
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 to purchase any beer or intoxicating liquor, or
sell any alcohol at retail.  This division does not apply to or affect the sale
or possession for sale of any low-alcohol beverage.
      (3)   No person, by himself, herself or by his or her clerk, agent, or
employee, who is the holder of a permit issued by the Department, shall sell,
keep, or possess for sale any intoxicating liquor not purchased from the
Department or from the holder of a permit issued by the Department authorizing
the sale of intoxicating liquor, unless the same has been purchased with the
special consent of the Department.  The Department shall revoke the permit of
any person convicted of a violation of this division.
(R.C. § 4301.58)
   (C)   Penalty.  Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C)) 
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.06  ILLEGAL TRANSPORTATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, who is not the holder of an H permit shall transport beer,
intoxicating liquor, or alcohol in this municipality.  This section does not
apply to the transportation and delivery of beer, alcohol, or intoxicating
liquor purchased or to be purchased from the holder of a permit issued by the
Division of Liquor Control, in force at the time, and authorizing the sale and
delivery of the beer, alcohol, or intoxicating liquor so transported, or to the
transportation and delivery of beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol purchased
from the Department or the Tax Commissioner, or purchased by the holder of an A
or B permit outside this state, and transported within this municipality by
them in their own trucks for the purpose of sale under their permits.
(R.C. § 4301.60)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 94.07  OPEN CONTAINER PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. Means a vehicle registered under R.C. § 4503.24.
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (B)   No person shall have in the person’s possession an opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(e) of this section, in a
state liquor store;
      (2)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, on the premises
of the holder of any permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control;
      (3)   In any other public place;
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on any street, highway,
or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking;
      (5)   Except as provided in division (D) or (E) of this section, while
being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on any street, highway, or other
public or private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking.
   (C)   (1)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened container
of any of the following:
         (a)   Beer or intoxicating liquor that has been lawfully purchased for
consumption on the premises where bought from the holder of an A-1-A, A-2, A-
2f, A-3a, D-1, D-2, D-3, D-3a, D-4, D-4a, D-5, D-5a, D-5b, D-5c, D-5d, D-5e, D-
5f, D-5g, D-5h, D-5i, D-5j, D-5k, D-5l, D-5m, D-5n, D-5o, D-7, D-8, E, F, F-2,
F-5, F-7, or F-8 permit;
         (b)   Beer, wine, or mixed beverages served for consumption on the
premises by the holder of an F-3 permit, wine served as a tasting sample by an
A-2, S-1, or S-2 permit holder for consumption on the premises of a farmers
market for which an F-10 permit has been issued, or wine served for consumption
on the premises by the holder of an F-4 or F-6 permit;
         (c)   Beer or intoxicating liquor consumed on the premises of a
convention facility as provided in R.C. § 4303.201;
         (d)   Beer or intoxicating liquor to be consumed during tastings and
samplings approved by rule of the Liquor Control Commission;
         (e)   Spiritous liquor to be consumed for purposes of a tasting
sample, as defined in R.C. § 4301.171.
      (2)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F liquor permit
premises an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor that was not
purchased from the holder of the F permit if the premises for which the F
permit is issued is a music festival and the holder of the F permit grants
permission for that possession on the premises during the period for which the
F permit is issued. As used in this division (C)(2), MUSIC FESTIVAL means a
series of outdoor live musical performances extending for a period of at least
three consecutive days and located on an area of land of at least 40 acres.
      (3)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on a D-2 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of wine that was not purchased
from the holder of the D-2 permit if the premises for which the D-2 permit is
issued is an outdoor performing arts center, the person is attending an
orchestral performance, and the holder of the D-2 permit grants permission for
the possession and consumption of wine in certain predesignated areas of the
premises during the period for which the D-2 permit is issued.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(3)(a) of this section:
            ORCHESTRAL PERFORMANCE. Means a concert comprised of a group of not
fewer than 40 musicians playing various musical instruments.
            OUTDOOR PERFORMING ARTS CENTER. Means an outdoor performing arts
center that is located on not less than 150 acres of land and that is open for
performances from the first day of April to the last day of October of each
year.
      (4)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened or unopened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location at which the
person is attending an orchestral performance as defined in division (C)(3)(b)
of this section if the person with supervision and control over the performance
grants permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating
liquor in certain predesignated areas of that outdoor location.
      (5)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on an F-9 liquor
permit premises an opened or unopened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
that was not purchased from the holder of the F-9 permit if the person is
attending either of the following:
            1.   An orchestral performance and the F-9 permit holder grants
permission for the possession and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor in
certain predesignated areas of the premises during the period for which the F-
9 permit is issued;
            2.   An outdoor performing arts event or orchestral performance
that is free of charge and the F-9 permit holder annually hosts not less than
25 other events or performances that are free of charge on the permit premises.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(5) of this section, ORCHESTRAL
PERFORMANCE has the same meaning as in division (C)(3)(b) of this section.
      (6)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of an outdoor motorsports facility an opened or unopened container of beer or
intoxicating liquor that was not purchased from the owner of the facility if
both of the following apply:
            1.   The person is attending a racing event at the facility; and
            2.   The owner of the facility grants permission for the possession
and consumption of beer or intoxicating liquor on the property of the facility.
         (b)   As used in division (C)(6)(a) of this section:
            OUTDOOR MOTORSPORTS FACILITY. An outdoor racetrack to which all of
the following apply:
               a.   It is 2.4 miles or more in length.
               b.   It is located on 200 acres or more of land.
               c.   The primary business of the owner of the facility is the
hosting and promoting of racing events.
               d.   The holder of a D-1, D-2, or D-3 permit is located on the
property of the facility.
            RACING EVENT. A motor vehicle racing event sanctioned by one or
more motor racing sanctioning organizations.
      (7)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession an opened
container of beer or intoxicating liquor at an outdoor location within an
outdoor refreshment area created under R.C. §4301.82 if the opened container of
beer or intoxicating liquor was purchased from an A-1, A-1-A, A-1c, A-2, A-2f,
D class, or F class permit holder to which both of the following apply:
            1.   The permit holder’s premises is located within the outdoor
refreshment area.
            2.   The permit held by the permit holder has an outdoor
refreshment area designation.
         (b)   Division (C)(7) of this section does not authorize a person to
do either of the following:
            1.   Enter the premises of an establishment within an outdoor
refreshment area while possessing an opened container of beer or intoxicating
liquor acquired elsewhere;
            2.   Possess an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
while being in or on a motor vehicle within an outdoor refreshment area, unless
the possession is otherwise authorized under division (D) or (E) of this
section.
         (c)   As used in division (C)(7) of this section, “D class permit
holder” does not include a D-6 or D-8 permit holder.
      (8)   (a)   A person may have in the person’s possession on the property
of a market, within a defined F-8 permit premises, an opened container of beer
or intoxicating liquor that was purchased from a D permit premises that is
located immediately adjacent to the market if both of the following apply:
            1.   The market grants permission for the possession and
consumption of beer and intoxicating liquor within the defined F-8 permit
premises;
            2.   The market is hosting an event pursuant to an F-8 permit and
the market has notified the division of liquor control about the event in
accordance with R.C. § 4303.208(A)(3).
         (b)   As used in division (C)(8) of this section, MARKET means a
market, for which an F-8 permit is held, that has been in operation since 1860.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a person who pays all or a portion of
the fee imposed for use of a chauffeured limousine pursuant to a prearranged
contract or the guest of the person, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person or guest is a passenger in the limousine.
      (2)   The person or guest is located in the limousine, but is not
occupying a seat in the front compartment of the limousine where the operator
of the limousine is located.
      (3)   The limousine is located on any street, highway, or other public or
private property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking.
   (E)   An opened bottle of wine that was purchased from the holder of a
permit that authorizes the sale of wine for consumption on the premises where
sold is not an opened container for the purposes of this section if both of the
following apply:
      (1)   The opened bottle of wine is securely resealed by the permit holder
or an employee of the permit holder before the bottle is removed from the
premises. The bottle shall be secured in such a manner that it is visibly
apparent if the bottle has been subsequently opened or tampered with.
      (2)   The opened bottle of wine that is resealed in accordance with
division (E)(1) of this section is stored in the trunk of a motor vehicle or,
if the motor vehicle does not have a trunk, behind the last upright seat or in
an area not normally occupied by the driver or passengers and not easily
accessible by the driver.
(R.C. § 4301.62)  (`94 Code, § 529.07)
   (F)   (1)   Except if an ordinance or resolution is enacted or adopted under
division (F)(2) of this section, this section does not apply to a person who,
pursuant to a prearranged contract, is a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle when all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is not occupying a seat in the front of the
commercial quadricycle where the operator is steering or braking.
         (b)   The commercial quadricycle is being operated on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking.
         (c)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
an opened container of beer or wine.
         (d)   The person has in their possession on the commercial quadricycle
not more than either 36 ounces of beer or 18 ounces of wine.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority may enact an ordinance or adopt a
resolution, as applicable, that prohibits a passenger riding on a commercial
quadricycle from possessing an opened container of beer or wine.
      (3)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL QUADRICYCLE means a vehicle
that has fully-operative pedals for propulsion entirely by human power and that
meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   It has four wheels and is operated in a manner similar to a
bicycle.
         (b)   It has at least five seats for passengers.
         (c)   It is designed to be powered by the pedaling of the operator and
the passengers.
         (d)   It is used for commercial purposes.
         (e)   It is operated by the vehicle owner or an employee of the owner.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person that has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor on the premises
of a market if the beer or intoxicating liquor has been purchased from a D
liquor permit holder that is located in the market.
      (2)   As used in division (G) of this section, MARKET means an
establishment that:
         (a)   Leases space in the market to individual vendors, not less than
50% of which are retail food establishments or food service operations licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3717;
         (b)   Has an indoor sales floor area of not less than 22,000 square
feet;
         (c)   Hosts a farmer’s market on each Saturday from April through
December.
(R.C. § 4301.62)  (`94 Code, § 529.07)
   (H)   (1)   As used in this section, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE has the same meaning
as in R.C. § 4303.185.
      (2)   An alcoholic beverage in a closed container being transported under
R.C. § 4303.185 to its final destination is not an opened container for the
purposes of this section if the closed container is securely sealed in such a
manner that it is visibly apparent if the closed container has been
subsequently opened or tampered with after sealing.
   (I)   This section does not apply to a person who has in the person’s
possession an opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor in a public-use
airport, as described in R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a)(iii), when both of the
following apply:
      (1)   Consumption of the opened container of beer or intoxicating liquor
occurs in the area of the airport terminal that is restricted to persons taking
flights to and from the airport; and
      (2)   The consumption is authorized under R.C. § 4303.181(D)(2)(a).
(R.C. § 4301.62)  (`94 Code, § 529.07)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 94.08  UNDERAGE PERSON SHALL NOT PURCHASE INTOXICATING LIQUOR OR BEER.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall purchase beer or intoxicating liquor.
(R.C. § 4301.63)  (`94 Code, § 529.021(a))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $100.  The court imposing a fine for a violation of this section may
order that the fine be paid by the performance of public work at a reasonable
hour rate established by the court.  The court shall designate the time within
which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E))
§ 94.09  PROHIBITIONS; MINORS UNDER 18 YEARS; LOW-ALCOHOL BEVERAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section, UNDERAGE PERSON means a person under 18 years
of age.
   (B)   No underage person shall purchase any low-alcohol beverage.
   (C)   No underage person shall order, pay for, share the cost of, or attempt
to purchase any low- alcohol beverage.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the
name, age, or other identification of any underage person for the purpose of
obtaining or with the intent to obtain any low-alcohol beverage for an underage
person, by purchase or as a gift.
   (E)   No underage person shall knowingly show or give false information
concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the purpose of
purchasing or otherwise obtaining any low-alcohol beverage in any place in this
municipality.
   (F)   No person shall sell or furnish any low-alcohol beverage to, or buy
any low-alcohol beverage for, an underage person, unless given by a physician
in the regular line of his or her practice or given for established religious
purposes, or unless the underage person is accompanied by a parent, spouse who
is not an underage person, or legal guardian.
   (G)   (1)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private
place shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place
while possessing or consuming any low-alcohol beverage, unless the low-alcohol
beverage is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that person's
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, and the
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present when
the person possesses or consumes the low-alcohol beverage.
      (2)   An owner of a public or private place is not liable for acts or
omissions in violation of division (G)(1) that are committed by a lessee of
that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee's acts or
omissions.
   (H)   No permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control shall be suspended,
revoked, or cancelled because of a violation of either division (F) or (G).
   (I)   No underage person shall knowingly possess or consume any low-alcohol
beverage in any public or private place, unless he or she is accompanied by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or unless the
low-alcohol beverage is given by a physician in the regular line of his or her
practice or given for established religious purposes.
   (J)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
an underage person shall knowingly permit the underage person to violate this
section.
(R.C. § 4301.631)
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates any provision of this section for which no
other penalty is provided is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $100.  The court imposing a fine for a violation of
division (B) of this section may order that the fine be paid by the performance
of public work at a reasonable hour rate established by the court.  The court
shall designate the time within which the public work shall be completed.
(R.C. § 4301.99(E)) 
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.10  MISREPRESENTATION TO OBTAIN ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE FOR A MINOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall knowingly furnish any false information as to the name, age, or
other identification of any person under 21 years of age, for the purpose of
obtaining, or with the intent to obtain, beer or intoxicating liquor for a
person under 21 years of age, by purchase, or as a gift.
(R.C. § 4301.633)  (`94 Code, § 529.021(c))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 94.11  MISREPRESENTATION BY A MINOR UNDER 21 YEARS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person under the age of 21 years shall knowingly show or give false
information concerning his or her name, age, or other identification for the
purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining beer or intoxicating liquor in any
place in this municipality where beer or intoxicating liquor is sold under a
permit issued by the Division of Liquor Control, or sold by the Division of
Liquor Control.
(R.C. § 4301.634)  (`94 Code, § 539.021(d))
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.  If, in committing a first violation of
division (A), the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
      (2)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the offender
presented to the permit holder or his or her employee or agent a false,
fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious driver's
license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's license issued by any
state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000, and
may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months.  The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operation privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (3)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to the permit holder or his or her
employee or agent a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more
than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than
six months.  The court also shall impose a class six suspension of the
offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the
court may order that the suspension or denial remain in effect until the
offender attains the age of 21 years.  The court also may order the offender to
perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with the court
determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the community service
the offender shall perform.
(R.C. § 4301.99(F))
§ 94.12  SALE TO UNDERAGE PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or in R.C. Chapter 4301,
no person shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor to an underage person, shall
buy beer or intoxicating liquor for an underage person, or shall furnish it to
an underage person unless given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician's practice or given for established religious purposes or unless the
underage person is supervised by a parent, spouse who is not an underage
person, or legal guardian.  In proceedings before the Liquor Control
Commission, no permit holder, or no employee or agent of a permit holder,
charged with a violation of this division shall be charged, for the same
offense, with a violation of R.C. § 4301.22(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   No person who is the owner or occupant of any public or private place
shall knowingly allow any underage person to remain in or on the place while
possessing or consuming beer or intoxicating liquor, unless the intoxicating
liquor or beer is given to the person possessing or consuming it by that
person's parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian and
the parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian is present
at the time of the person's possession or consumption of the beer or
intoxicating liquor.  An owner of a public or private place is not liable for
acts or omissions in violation of this division that are committed by a lessee
of that place, unless the owner authorizes or acquiesces in the lessee's acts
or omissions.
   (C)   No person shall engage or use accommodations at a hotel, inn, cabin,
campground, or restaurant when the person knows or has reason to know either of
the following:
      (1)   That beer or intoxicating liquor will be consumed by an underage
person on the premises of the accommodations that the person engages or uses,
unless the person engaging or using the accommodations is the spouse of the
underage person and who is not an underage person, or is the parent or legal
guardian of all of the underage persons, who consume beer or intoxicating
liquor on the premises and that person is on the premises at all times when
beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by an underage person.
      (2)   That a drug of abuse will be consumed on the premises of the
accommodations by any person, except a person who obtained the drug of abuse
pursuant to a prescription issued by a licensed health professionals authorized
to prescribe drugs and has the drug of abuse in the original container in which
it was dispensed to the person.
   (D)   (1)   No person is required to permit the engagement of accommodations
at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by an underage person or for an
underage person, if the person engaging the accommodations knows or has reason
to know that the underage person is intoxicated, or that the underage person
possesses any beer or intoxicating liquor and is not supervised by a parent,
spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian who is or will be
present at all times when the beer or intoxicating liquor is being consumed by
the underage person.
      (2)   No underage person shall knowingly engage or attempt to engage
accommodations at any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground by presenting
identification that falsely indicates that the underage person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of violating this section.
   (E)   (1)   No underage person shall knowingly order, pay for, share the
cost of, attempt to purchase, possess, or consume any beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public or private place.  No underage person shall knowingly be
under the influence of any beer or intoxicating liquor in any public place. 
The prohibitions set forth in this division against an underage person
knowingly possessing, consuming, or being under the influence of any beer or
intoxicating liquor shall not apply if the underage person is supervised by a
parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian, or the beer or
intoxicating liquor is given by a physician in the regular line of the
physician's practice or given for established religious purposes.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is charged with violating division (E)(1) of this
section in a complaint filed under R.C. § 2151.27, the court may order the
child into a diversion program specified by the court and hold the complaint in
abeyance pending successful completion of the diversion program.  A child is
ineligible to enter into a diversion program under this division if the child
previously has been diverted pursuant to this division.  If the child completes
the diversion program to the satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss
the complaint and order the child’s record in the case sealed under R.C. §§
2151.356 through 2151.358.  If the child fails to satisfactorily complete the
diversion program, the court shall proceed with the complaint.
         (b)   If a person is charged in a criminal complaint with violating
division (E)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2935.36 shall apply to the offense,
except that a person is ineligible for diversion under that section if the
person previously has been diverted pursuant to divisions (E)(2)(a) or (E)(2)
(b) of this section.  If the person completes the division program to the
satisfaction of the court, the court shall dismiss the complaint and order the
record in the case sealed under R.C. § 2953.52.  If the person fails to
satisfactorily complete the diversion program, the court shall proceed with the
complaint.
   (F)   No parent, spouse who is not an underage person, or legal guardian of
a minor shall knowingly permit the minor to violate this section or R.C. §
4301.63, 4301.633, or 4301.634, or any substantially similar municipal
ordinance.
   (G)   The operator of any hotel, inn, cabin, or campground shall make the
provisions of this section available in writing to any person engaging or using
accommodations at the hotel, inn, cabin, or campground.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG OF ABUSE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   HOTEL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3731.01.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS and
PRESCRIPTION.  Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   MINOR.  A person under the age of 18 years.
   UNDERAGE PERSON.  A person under the age of 21 years.
(R.C. § 4301.69)  (`94 Code, § 529.02)
   (I)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4301.633 through 4301.637, or substantially
similar municipal ordinances, shall not be deemed to modify or affect divisions
(A) through (H) of this section or R.C. § 4301.69.
(R.C. § 4301.638)
   (J)   (1)   Except as provided in division (J)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If an
offender who violates division (E)(1) of this section was under the age of 18
years at the time of the offense and the offense occurred while the offender
was the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle, the court, in addition
to any other penalties it imposes upon the offender, shall suspend the
offender's temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's license for a
period of six months.  If the offender is 15 years and 6 months of age or older
and has not been issued a temporary instruction permit or probationary driver's
license, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or
permit for a period of six months.  If the offender has not attained the age of
15 years and 6 months, the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a
temporary instruction permit until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1000, and in
addition to the fine, may be imprisoned for a definite term of not more than
six months.
(R.C. § 4301.99(I))
Statutory reference:
   Changes to law if federal uniform drinking age repealed or declared
unconstitutional, see R.C. § 4301.691
§ 94.13  POSTING OF CARD.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4301.691, every place in
this municipality where beer, intoxicating liquor, or any low-alcohol beverage
is sold for beverage purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place
on the premises thereof, a printed card, which shall be furnished by the
Division of Liquor Control and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO PERSONS UNDER AGE
   If you are under the age of 21
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or possess or consume beer or intoxicating
liquor in any public place, or furnish false information as to name, age, or
other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $1,000, or
imprisonment up to 6 months, or both.
   If you are under the age of 18
   Under the statutes of the state of Ohio, if you order, pay for, share the
cost of, or attempt to purchase, or posses or consume, any type of beer or wine
that contains either no alcohol or less than one-half of one per cent of
alcohol by volume in any public place, or furnish false information as to the
name, age, or other identification, you are subject to a fine of up to $250 or
to imprisonment up to 30 days, or both.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Department or the Liquor Control Commission for failing
to display this card.  No permit issued by the Department shall be suspended,
revoked, or canceled because of the failure of the permit holder to display
this card.
   (B)   (1)   Every place in this municipality for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 shall be issued a printed card by the Division
of Liquor Control that shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING
   If you are carrying a firearm
   Under the statutes of Ohio, if you possess a firearm in any room in which
liquor is being dispensed in premises for which a D permit has been issued
under Chapter 4303 of the Revised Code, you may be guilty of a felony and may
be subjected to a prison term of up to one year.
      (2)   No person shall be subject to any criminal prosecution or any
proceedings before the Division of Liquor Control or the Liquor Control
Commission for failing to display this card.  No permit issued by the
Department shall be suspended, revoked, or canceled because of the failure of
the permit holder to display this card.
(R.C. § 4301.637)  (`94 Code, § 529.06) 
Penalty, see § 94.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapon, felony, see R.C. § 2923.12
   Possessing firearm in liquor permit premises, exceptions, defenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.121
§ 94.14  GOOD FAITH ACCEPTANCES OF SPURIOUS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No permit holder, agent or employee of a permit holder, or any other
person may be found guilty of a violation of any section of this chapter in
which age is any element of the offense, if any court of record finds all of
the following:
      (1)   That the person buying, at the time of so doing, exhibited to the
permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder, or the other person
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card as defined
in R.C. § 4301.61, or a military identification card issued by the United
States Department of Defense, or a United States or foreign passport, that
displays a picture of the individual for whom the license, card, or passport
was issued and shows that the person buying was then at least 21 years of age
if the person was buying beer as defined in R.C. § 4301.01 or intoxicating
liquor, or that the person was then at least 18 years of age if the person was
buying any low-alcohol beverage;
      (2)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person made a bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the
person buying by checking the identification presented at the time of the
purchase to ascertain that the description on the identification compared with
the appearance of the buyer and that the identification presented had not been
altered in any way.
      (3)   That the permit holder, the agent or employee of the permit holder,
or the other person had reason to believe that the person buying was of legal
age.
   (B)   The defense provided by division (A) of this section is in addition to
the affirmative defense provided by §
94.29.
(R.C. § 4301.639(A), (C))
§ 94.15  CONSUMPTION IN MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall consume any beer or intoxicating liquor in a motor
vehicle.  This section does not apply to persons described in R.C. § 4301.62(D)
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4301.64)  (`94 Code, § 529.04)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If an offender who violates this section was under the age of 18 years
at the time of the offense, the court, in addition to any other penalties it
imposes upon the offender, may suspend the offender’s temporary instruction
permit, probationary driver’s license or driver’s license for a period of not
less than six months and not more than one year. In lieu of suspending the
offender’s temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or
driver’s license, the court instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court. If the
offender is 15 years and six months of age or older and has not been issued a
temporary instruction permit or probationary driver’s license, the offender
shall not be eligible to be issued such a license or permit for a period of six
months. If the offender has not attained the age of 15 years and six months,
the offender shall not be eligible to be issued a temporary instruction permit
until the offender attains the age of 16 years.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 94.16  HOURS OF SALE OR CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   This section shall apply to the retail sale of beer, wine, mixed
beverages, or spirituous liquor.
   (B)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1, A-1C, A-2, B-1, B-2, B-4, B-5, C-1, C-2, C-2X, D-1, D-2,
D-2X, D-3 when issued without a D-3A, D-3X, D-4, D-5H, D-5K, D-8, F, F-1, F-2,
F-3, F-4, F-5, F-6, F-7, F-8, F-9, G, or I permit holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (C)   No beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor shall be sold or
delivered by an A-1A, D-3 when issued with a D-3A, D-4A, D-5, D-5A, D-5B, D-5C,
D-5D, D-5E, D-5F, D-5G,  D-5I, D-5J, D-5L, D-5M, D-5N, D-5O, or D-7 permit
holder:
      (1)   From Monday to Saturday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 5:30
a.m.
      (2)   On Sunday between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and Sunday midnight,
unless statutorily authorized otherwise.
      (3)   Consumption of beer, wine, mixed beverages, or spirituous liquor is
also prohibited during the above hours upon the premises of the above permit
holders who are authorized by their permit to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages,
or spirituous liquor for on-premises consumption.
   (D)   Permit holders authorized to sell beer, wine, mixed beverages, or
spirituous liquor at retail who are not specifically identified in divisions
(B) or (C) above shall be subject to the provisions of division (B), unless
statutorily authorized otherwise.
   (E)   The hours on Sunday during which sales, delivery, or consumption of
alcoholic beverages may take place are established by statute, but in no event
shall they begin prior to 5:30 a.m.
(O.A.C. § 4301:1-1-49)  (`94 Code, §529.08)
   (F)   No association, corporation, local unit of an association or
corporation, or D permit holder who holds an F-2 permit shall sell beer or
intoxicating liquor beyond the hours of sale allowed by the permit. This
division imposes strict liability on the holder of such permit and on any
officer, agent or employee of such permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.202(D)(2))
   (G)   No F-8 permit holder shall sell beer or intoxicating liquor beyond the
hours of sale allowed by the permit.  This division imposes strict liability on
the holder of an F-8 permit and on any officer, agent or employee of that
permit holder.
(R.C. § 4303.208(C))
   (H)   Whoever violates divisions (F) or (G) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4303.99(D)) 
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.17  OBSTRUCTING SEARCH OF PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall hinder or obstruct any agent or employee of the
Division of Liquor Control, any enforcement agent of the Department of Public
Safety or any officer of the law from making an inspection or search of any
place, other than a bona fide private residence, where beer or intoxicating
liquor is possessed, kept, sold, or given away.
(R.C. § 4301.66)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 94.18  ILLEGAL POSSESSION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall have possession of any spirituous liquor, in excess of
one liter, in one or more containers, which was not purchased at wholesale or
retail from the Division of Liquor Control or otherwise lawfully acquired
pursuant to this chapter, R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or any other
intoxicating liquor or beer, in one or more containers, which was not lawfully
acquired pursuant to those chapters.
(R.C. § 4301.67)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(B))
§ 94.19  SALE OR POSSESSION OF DILUTED LIQUOR AND REFILLED CONTAINERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, or possess with the intent to
sell intoxicating liquor in any original container which has been diluted,
refilled, or partly refilled.
(R.C. § 4301.68)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 94.20  KEEPING PLACE WHERE BEER OR INTOXICATING LIQUORS ARE SOLD IN VIOLATION
OF LAW.
   (A)   No person shall keep a place where beer or intoxicating liquors are
sold, furnished, or given away in violation of law.  The court, on conviction
for a subsequent violation of this section, shall order the place where the
beer or intoxicating liquor is sold, furnished, or given away to be abated as a
nuisance or shall order the person so convicted to give bond payable to the
state in the sum of $1,000, with sureties to the acceptance of the court, that
the person will not sell, furnish, or give away beer or intoxicating liquor in
violation of law and will pay all fines, costs, and damages assessed against
the person for that subsequent violation of this section.  The giving away of
beer or intoxicating liquors, or any other device to evade this section,
constitutes unlawful selling.
   (B)   As used in this section, BEER has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4301.01.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any premises for which
a permit has been issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 while that permit is in
effect.
(R.C. § 4399.09)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 on a first offense and shall be fined not less than $200 nor
more than $500 on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4399.99(B))
§ 94.21  INTOXICATING LIQUORS SHALL NOT BE SOLD IN BROTHELS.
   (A)   No person shall sell, exchange, or give away intoxicating liquor in a
brothel.
(R.C. § 4399.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500 and imprisoned not less than one nor more than six months.
(R.C. § 4399.99(C))
§ 94.22  USE OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN A PUBLIC DANCE HALL PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) of this section,
no person who is the proprietor of, or who conducts, manages, or is in charge
of any public dance hall shall allow the use of any intoxicating liquor or the
presence of intoxicated persons in the public dance hall or on the premises on
which it is located.
      (2)   The prohibition against the use of any intoxicating liquor
contained in division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to establishments
that are holders of a D-1, D-2, D-3, D-4, or D-5 permit whose principal
business consists of conducting a hotel, a restaurant, a club, or a nightclub,
all as defined in R.C. § 4301.01.
(R.C. § 4399.14)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $25 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(D))
§ 94.23  POISONOUSLY ADULTERATED LIQUORS.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sale, shall adulterate spirituous
liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer used or intended for drink or medicinal or
mechanical purposes, with cocculus indicus, vitriol, grains of paradise, opium,
alum, capsicum, copperas, laurel water, logwood, brazilwood, cochineal, sugar
of lead, aloes, glucose, tannic acid, or any other substance that is poisonous
or injurious to health, or with a substance not a necessary ingredient in the
manufacture of the spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer, or sell, offer,
or keep for sale spiritous liquor, alcoholic liquor, or beer that is so
adulterated.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided in division (C) of this section,
a person convicted of violating this section shall pay all necessary costs and
expenses incurred in inspecting and analyzing spiritous liquor, alcoholic
liquor, or beer that is so adulterated, sold, kept, or offered for sale.
(R.C. § 4399.15)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $20 nor
more than $100, imprisoned not less than 20 nor more than 60 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4399.99(E))
§ 94.24  TAVERN KEEPER PERMITTING RIOTING OR DRUNKENNESS.
   (A)   No tavern keeper shall permit rioting, intoxication, or drunkenness in
or on his or her premises.
(R.C. § 4399.16)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $5 nor more
than $100.
(R.C. § 4399.99(A))
§ 94.25  NOTICE OF ACTION TO PROHIBIT LIQUOR BUSINESS.
   Any party bringing an action to prohibit the operation of a business under a
liquor permit issued pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 shall, upon filing the
complaint in the action, notify the Division of Liquor Control of the filing of
the complaint.
(R.C. § 4303.40)
§ 94.26  PROCEDURE WHEN INJUNCTION VIOLATED.
   (A)   Any person subject to an injunction, temporary or permanent, granted
pursuant to R.C. § 3767.05(D) or (E) involving a condition described in
division (3) of the definition of “nuisance” in R.C. § 3767.01, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, shall obey the injunction.  If the
person violates the injunction, the court, or in vacation a judge thereof, may
summarily try and punish the violator.  The proceedings for punishment for
contempt shall be commenced by filing with the Clerk of the Court from which
the injunction issued, information under oath setting out the alleged facts
constituting the violation, whereupon the court shall cause a warrant to issue
under which the defendant shall be arrested.  The trial may be had upon
affidavits, or either party may demand the production and oral examination of
the witnesses.
(R.C. § 4301.74)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(C))
§ 94.27  LIQUOR TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   As used in this section and §
94.28:
   CARD HOLDER means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or an identification card to a permit holder, or an agent or employee
of a permit holder, for either of the purposes listed in under divisions (a) or
(b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
   IDENTIFICATION CARD means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 to 4507.52 or an equivalent identification card issued by another
state.
   PERMIT HOLDER means the holder of a permit issued under R.C. Chapter 4303.
   TRANSACTION SCAN means the process by which a permit holder or an agent or
employee of a permit holder checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for doing either of the following:
         (a)   Purchasing any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol
beverage;
         (b)   Gaining admission to a premises that has been issued a liquor
permit authorizing the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for consumption on
the premises where sold, and where admission is restricted to persons 21 years
of age or older.
   TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
   (B)   (1)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may
perform a transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card
presented by a card holder for either of the purposes listed in divisions (a)
or (b) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (2)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(1) of this section fails to match the information printed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information so
printed is false or fraudulent, neither the permit holder nor any agent or
employee of the permit holder shall sell any beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-
alcohol beverage to the card holder.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not preclude a permit holder
or an agent or employee of a permit holder from using a transaction scan device
to check the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or
magnetic strip that may be scanned by the device, as a condition of a sale
beer, intoxicating liquor, or a low-alcohol beverage or of granting admission
to a premises described in the definition for “transaction scan” in this
section.
   (C)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles, with the approval of the Liquor
Control Commission, shall adopt, and may amend or rescind, rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that do both of the following:
      (1)   Govern the recording and maintenance of information described in
R.C. § 4301.61(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b), R.C. § 2925.57(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b),
and R.C. § 2927.021(D)(1)(a) and (D)(1)(b);
      (2)   Ensure quality control in the use of transaction scan devices under
R.C. §§ 2925.57, 2925.58, 2927.021, 2927.022, 4301.61, and 4301.611.
   (D)   (1)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
         (a)   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder;
         (b)   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
      (2)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
the information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to
be recorded and maintained under division (D)(1) of this section, except for
purposes of R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
      (3)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall use
a transaction scan device for a purpose other than a purpose listed in
divisions (1) or (2) of the definition for “transaction scan” in this section.
      (4)   No permit holder or agent or employee of a permit holder shall sell
or otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by R.C. § 4301.611, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, or another section of this code or
the Ohio Revised Code.
   (E)   Nothing in this section or R.C. § 4301.611, or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance, relieves a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder of any responsibility to comply with any other applicable local,
state or federal laws or rules governing the sale of beer, intoxicating liquor,
or low-alcohol beverages.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) or (D) of this section is guilty of
an illegal liquor transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender
a civil penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation.  The Clerk of the Court
shall pay each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into
the County Treasury.
(R.C. § 4301.61)
§ 94.28  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   A permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder may not be
found guilty of a charge of a violation of this chapter or any rule of the
Liquor Control Commission in which the age of the purchaser of any beer,
intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage is an element of the alleged
violation, if the permit holder, agent, or employee raises and proves as an
affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
      (1)   A card holder attempting to purchase any beer, intoxicating liquor,
or low-alcohol beverage presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
      (2)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that the
license or card was valid.
      (3)   The beer, intoxicating liquor, or low-alcohol beverage was sold to
the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification  presented and
the completed transaction scan.
   (B)   In determining whether a permit holder or an agent or employee of a
permit holder has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section, the Liquor Control Commission or the trier of fact in a court of
record shall consider any written policy that the permit holder has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of R.C. §§ 4301.22(A)(1)
or (2), 4301.63 to 4301.636, 4301.69, and 4301.691, or any substantially
similar municipal ordinances.  For purposes of division (A)(3) of this section,
the Commission or trier of fact shall consider that reasonable reliance upon
the identification presented and the completed transaction scan may require a
permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder to exercise reasonable
diligence to determine, and that the use of a  transaction scan device does not
excuse a permit holder or an agent or employee of a permit holder from
exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
      (1)   Whether a person to whom the permit holder or agent or employee of
a permit holder sells any beer or intoxicating liquor is 21 years of age or
older or sells low-alcohol beverage is 18 years of age or older;
      (2)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
   (C)   The affirmative defense provided by division (A) of this section is in
addition to the defense provided by R.C. § 4301.639, or any substantially
similar municipal ordinance.
   (D)   In any hearing before the Liquor Control Commission and in any
criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by division (A) of
this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar
who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 shall be
permitted to submit certified copies of the records of that issuance in lieu of
the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the hearing or action.
(R.C. § 4301.611)
§ 94.29  ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, ALCOHOL VAPORIZING DEVICE means a machine or
other device that mixes beer or intoxicating liquor with pure oxygen or any
other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by
inhalation.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale an alcohol vaporizing device.
   (C)   No person shall purchase or use an alcohol vaporizing device.
(R.C. § 4301.65)
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
misdemeanor of the third degree. For a second or subsequent violation occurring
within a period of five consecutive years after the first violation, a person
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4301.99(J))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4301.99(A))
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no other penalty
has been provided is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4301.70, 4301.99(A))
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Director to be notified of court decision regarding permit holder,
employee or agent, see R.C. § 4301.991
CHAPTER 95:  NUISANCES
Section
General Nuisance Provisions
   
95.01   Abandoned refrigerators and airtight containers
   
95.02   Notice to fill lots, remove putrid substances
   
95.03   Fences
   
95.04   Littering and deposit of garbage, rubbish, junk, etc.
   
95.05   Noxious or offensive odors
   
95.06   Storage of junk and junk vehicles; garbage and refuse
   
95.07   Unnecessary noise prohibited
Weeds
   
95.20   Notice to cut and destroy
   
95.21   Fees for service and return
   
95.22   Noncompliance; cutting and destruction by village; expenses
   
95.23   Collection of costs
   
95.24   Violations
GENERAL NUISANCE PROVISIONS
§ 95.01  ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS AND AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, discard, or knowingly permit to remain on
premises under the person's control, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other airtight or semi-airtight
container which has a capacity of 1½ cubic feet or more and an opening of 50
square inches or more and which has a door or lid equipped with a hinge, latch,
or other fastening device capable of securing such door or lid, without
rendering the equipment harmless to human life by removing such hinges, latches
or other hardware which may cause a person to be confined therein.  This
section shall not apply to an icebox, refrigerator or other airtight or semi-
airtight container located in that part of a building occupied by a dealer,
warehouse or repairer.
(R.C. § 3767.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(B))  (`94 Code, § 521.01)
§ 95.02  NOTICE TO FILL LOTS, REMOVE PUTRID SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with the following requirements within
the lawful time after service or publication of the notice or resolution is
made as required by law:  To fill or drain any lot or land or remove all putrid
substances therefrom, or remove all obstructions from culverts, covered drains
or natural watercourses as provided in R.C. § 715.47.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(`94 Code, § 521.05) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.03  FENCES.
   (A)   No person shall erect or maintain any fence charged with electrical
current.
   (B)   No person shall erect or maintain a barbed wire fence which abuts or
is adjacent to any public street or sidewalk. This division (B) does not
prevent the placement and use of not more than three strands of barbed wire on
top of a fence other than a barbed wire fence, provided such strands are not
less than 72 inches from the ground.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(`94 Code, § 521.07)
§ 95.04  LITTERING AND DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, JUNK, ETC.
   (A)   No person, regardless of intent, shall deposit litter or cause litter
to be deposited on any public property, on private property not owned by him or
her, or in or on waters of the state, unless one of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the person
deposits the litter in a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents its being
carried away by the elements.
      (3)   The person is issued a permit or license covering the litter
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3734 or 6111.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly deposit litter,
or cause it to be deposited, in a litter receptacle located on any public
property or on any private property not owned by him or her, unless one of the
following applies:
      (1)   The litter was generated or located on the property on which the
litter receptacle is located.
      (2)   The person is directed to do so by a public official as part of a
litter collection drive.
      (3)   The person is directed to do so by a person whom he or she
reasonably believes to have the privilege to use the litter receptacle.
      (4)   The litter consists of any of the following:
         (a)   The contents of a litter bag or container of a type and size
customarily carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The contents of an ash tray of a type customarily installed or
carried and used in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   Beverage containers and food sacks, wrappings, and containers of
a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to be generated during
routine commuting or business or recreational travel by a motor vehicle.
         (d)   Beverage containers, food sacks, wrappings, containers, and
other materials of a type and in an amount that reasonably may be expected to
be generated during a routine day by a person and deposited in a litter
receptacle by a casual passerby.
   (C)   (1)   As used in division (B)(1) of this section, PUBLIC PROPERTY
includes any private property open to the public for the conduct of business,
the provision of a service, or upon the payment of a fee but does not include
any private property to which the public otherwise does not have a right of
access.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(4) of this section, CASUAL PASSERBY means a
person who does not have depositing litter in a litter receptacle as his or her
primary reason for traveling to or by the property on which the litter
receptacle is located.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUXILIARY CONTAINER. Means a bag, can, cup, food or beverage service
item, container, keg, bottle, or other packaging to which all of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is designed to be either single use or reusable.
         (b)   It is made of cloth, paper, plastic, foamed or expanded plastic,
cardboard, corrugated material, aluminum, metal, glass, postconsumer recycled
material, or similar materials or substances, including coated, laminated, or
multilayered substrates.
         (c)   It is designed for consuming, transporting, or protecting
merchandise, food, or beverages from or at a food service operation, retail
food establishment, grocery, or any other type of retail, manufacturing, or
distribution establishment.
      DEPOSIT.  To throw, drop, discard, or place.
      LITTER. Includes garbage, trash, waste, rubbish, ashes, cans, bottles,
wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture, glass, auxiliary
containers, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
      LITTER RECEPTACLE.  A dumpster, trash can, trash bin, garbage can, or
similar container in which litter is deposited for removal.
   (E)   This section may be enforced by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, police
officer of a municipal corporation, police constable or officer of a township,
or township or joint police district, wildlife officer designated under R.C. §
1531.13, natural resources officer appointed under R.C. § 1501.24, forest-fire
investigator appointed under R.C. § 1503.09, conservancy district police
officer, inspector of nuisances of a county, or any other law enforcement
officer within the law enforcement officer’s jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 3767.32)
   (F)   Whoever violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.  The sentencing court may, in addition to or
in lieu of the penalty provided in this division, require a person who violates
this section to remove litter from any public or private property or in or on
waters of the state.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))  (`94 Code, § 521.08)
§ 95.05  NOXIOUS OR OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, continue to use, or maintain a building,
structure, or place for the exercise of a trade, employment, or business or for
keeping or feeding an animal which, by occasioning noxious exhalations or
noisome or offensive smells, becomes injurious to the health, comfort, or
property of individuals or of the public.
   (B)   No person shall cause or allow offal, filth, or noisome substances to
be collected or remain in any place to the damage or prejudice of others or of
the public.
   (C)   No person shall unlawfully obstruct or impede the passage of a
navigable river, harbor, or collection of water, or corrupt or render
unwholesome or impure a watercourse, stream of water, or unlawfully divert such
watercourse from its natural course or state to the injury or prejudice of
others.
   (D)   Persons who are engaged in agriculture-related activities, as
AGRICULTURE is defined in R.C. § 519.01, and who are conducting those
activities outside the municipality, in accordance with generally accepted
agricultural practices, and in such a manner so as not to have a substantial,
adverse effect on the public health, safety, or welfare, are exempt from
divisions (A) and (B) above and from any ordinances, resolutions, rules, or
other enactments of the municipality that prohibit excessive noise.
(R.C. § 3767.13)
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 3767.99(C))  (`94 Code, § 521.09) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.06  STORAGE OF JUNK AND JUNK VEHICLES; GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      (1)   GARBAGE means all putrescible wastes, except wastes of the human
body, and other water-carried wastes, and includes all vegetable and animal
wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of
food. Any container that contained food or liquid for consumption by humans or
other beings shall also be classified as garbage.
      (2)   JUNK means old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries,
paper, rubber, lumber, pipe, used building materials and roofing, old scrap
iron, steel or other ferrous or nonferrous materials which are not held for
sale or remelting purposes by a person customarily engaged in such business
having facilities for processing such materials; an inoperable and unlicensed
(or not currently licensed), dismantled, partly dismantled or wrecked motor
vehicle that has no value except for salvage or junk purposes.
      (3)   PERSON  means the owner, occupant, user or other person in control
of the premises.
      (4)   REFUSE  means ashes, crockery, bottles, cans, paper and other wood
pulp products, boxes, rags, grass clippings and other cut vegetation, old and
discarded clothing, bedding, mattresses, furniture, appliances, rubbish, stone,
sand, dirt, nails, pieces of glass, oil and all other similar nonputrescible
wastes other than those included in the definition of garbage.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Accumulate, store or dispose of garbage or refuse in any manner
other than as provided by the ordinances or health regulations of the village;
or
      (2)   Accumulate or store junk at any place except in a wholly enclosed
building or structure, provided that this division shall not apply to a junk
yard lawfully operated by one customarily engaged in and having facilities for
processing junk.
   (C)   No person owning, occupying or otherwise having charge of any property
shall place or permit to be placed on such property any paper, dirt, ashes,
cartons, boxes or any scrap or waste material unless such person takes
reasonable steps to secure such matter from being blown or carried onto any
street, sidewalk, alley, park, public ground or other property of another
person.
   (D)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (E) hereof, following
conviction, and while the conduct prohibited by division (B) and (C) hereof
continues, the Village Administrator shall cause a written notice to abate such
conduct to be served upon the person convicted and upon the owner of the
premises, if other than the person convicted. Such notice shall state the
nature of the conduct and the  time, not less than 15 days following service of
the notice, within which the conduct shall be abated. If by the time stated,
the conduct has not been abated, the Village Administrator shall cause it to be
abated and shall certify the cost thereof to the Clerk-Treasurer, who shall
demand payment of such cost from the person who violated division (B) or (C)
hereof. such demand shall be in writing and shall contain a notice that a law
suit will be commended to recover the cost of abatement within 15 days from the
date of the demand for payment. If such payment is not forthcoming within 15
days from the date of the demand for payment, the Clerk-Treasurer shall notify
the Village Solicitor to take all steps necessary, including commencing a law
suit, to recover the cost of abatement from the person who violated division
(B) or (C) hereof.
   (E)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
(`94 Code, § 521.10)  (Ord. 17-68, passed 10-15-68) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.07  UNNECESSARY NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall make and no landowner or lawful occupant of land shall
permit within any residentially zoned district, the making of noise which by
reason of volume, pitch, frequency, intensity, duration or nature annoys or
disturbs the comfort, peace or health of a person of ordinary sensibilities and
not a resident of the property from which the noise emanates. Noise levels in
excess of that normally perceptible in the area or in excess of ordinary street
traffic noise levels are prescribed by this section except as hereinafter
provided.
   (B)   It shall be a prima facie violation of this section when the noise can
be heard more than 100 feet from the property where it is created.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit incidental noise
such as that as is made by construction repairs or maintenance of houses or
yards.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and upon a second or subsequent violation within one year of
the first, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition, Council may
authorize the institution of a civil action to abate repeated violations of
this section in accordance with law.
(Ord. 2-2016, passed 2-23-16)
WEEDS
§ 95.20  NOTICE TO CUT AND DESTROY.
   (A)   Upon written information that noxious weeds are growing on lands in
the village and are about to spread or mature seeds, or grass has exceeded the
height of eight inches, the Village Administrator shall cause a written notice
to be served upon the owner, lessee, agent or tenant having charge of such
land, notifying him or her that such noxious weeds are growing upon such lands
and that they must be cut within five days after the service of such notice. If
such owner or other person having charge of such land is a nonresident whose
address is known, such notice shall be sent to his or her address by registered
mail, if it is unknown, it shall be sufficient to publish such notice once in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village.
   (B)   When a written notice of violation has been issued in accordance with
the provisions of this section, such notice shall constitute adequate and
effective notice for all enforcement purposes under this chapter with respect
to continuing or repeat violations of §
95.20 for a period of one year following the date such initial notice is given.
(`94 Code, § 555.01)  (Am. Ord. 17-2009, passed 6-23-09; Am. Ord. 14-2014,
passed 5-27-14)
§ 95.21  FEES FOR SERVICE AND RETURN.
   The Chief of Police or a patrolman of the village or the Village
Administrator shall make service of the notice provided for in §
95.20 and make return thereof in the manner hereinbefore provided and shall be
allowed the same fees as are allowed for the service of summons in civil cases.
(`94 Code, § 555.02)  (Am. Ord. 14-2014, passed 5-27-14)
§ 95.22  NONCOMPLIANCE; CUTTING AND DESTRUCTION BY VILLAGE; EXPENSES.
   If the owner, lessee, agent or tenant having charge of the land fails to
comply with the notice, the Village Administrator shall cause the noxious weeds
or grass exceeding the height of eight inches to be cut and may employ the
necessary labor to carry out the provisions of these sections. All expenses
incurred, when approved by the Village Administrator, shall be paid out of any
money in the village treasury not otherwise appropriated.
(`94 Code, § 555.03)  (Am. Ord. 17-2009, passed 6-23-09; Am. Ord. 14-2014,
passed 5-27-14)
§ 95.23  COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   The Village Administrator shall make a written return to the County Auditor
of its action, with a statement of the charges for its services, the amount
paid for performing the labor, the fees of officers who made service of the
notice and return and a proper description of the premises. Such amounts, when
allowed, shall be entered upon the tax duplicate and be a lien upon the land
from and after the date of entry and be collected as other taxes and returned
to the village with the General Fund. The remedy provided for herein and in §
95.22 shall be in addition to the penalty provided in §
10.99.
(`94 Code, § 555.04)  (Am. Ord. 14-2014, passed 5-27-14)
§ 95.24  VIOLATIONS.
   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
subchapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or
continues.
(`94 Code, § 555.99)
CHAPTER 96:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park Regulations
   
96.01   Closing time of parks and recreational areas
   
96.02   Reservation of tables in Mary Fate Park
   
96.03   Mary Fate Park Perpetual Care Fund
   
96.04   Regulations for use of village parks
   
96.05   Penalty
Municipal Swimming Pool
   
96.15   Manager of swimming pool
   
96.16   Assistant manager and other employees
   
96.17   (Reserved)
   
96.18   Swimming pool rules and regulations
PARK REGULATIONS
§ 96.01  CLOSING TIME OF PARKS AND RECREATIONAL AREAS.
   All village parks, ball fields and other recreational places and activities
shall be closed between dusk to dawn each and every day of the week, except to
supervised groups having authorization from the Mayor.
(Ord. 14-2019, passed 9-10-19)
§ 96.02  RESERVATION OF TABLES IN MARY FATE PARK.
   The charge to reserve tables inside the pavilions of Mary Fate Park shall be
determined from time to time by Village Council.
(Ord. 14-2019, passed 9-10-19)
§ 96.03  MARY FATE PARK PERPETUAL CARE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a perpetual care fund in the village which
shall be known as the Mary Fate Park Perpetual Care Fund.
   (B)   All income derived from gifts, donations, devises and bequests and
designated for perpetual care of Mary Fate Park shall be deposited in the Mary
Fate Park Perpetual Care Fund and shall be perpetually and forever maintained
in such Fund. The principal of such Fund shall never be dissipated or used for
any other purpose.
   (C)   The Mary Fate Park Perpetual Care Fund shall be deposited in the Mary
Fate Park Perpetual Care Fund Account, which shall be maintained in the name of
the village in a bank deposit separate and distinct from all other funds of the
village.
   (D)   An accounting or record shall be kept by the Fiscal Officer specifying
all deposits, investments and withdrawals made by the Fiscal Officer.
   (E)   The Fiscal Officer shall invest the moneys in the Fund from time to
time in interest bearing obligations of the village, state and federal
governments, in accordance with the laws of the state and at the direction of
Council.
   (F)   Interest income or other increments shall be paid into the Park
Operation Fund annually by the Fiscal Officer and the Fiscal Officer is hereby
authorized to disburse such funds to pay operating expenses.
(Ord. 14-2019, passed 9-10-19)
§ 96.04  REGULATIONS FOR USE OF VILLAGE PARKS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Social, civic, entertainment, recreation, education
and benevolent non-profit activities and such other activities as are approved
by the Village Administrator and/or Council.
   (B)   Prohibitions. Unauthorized gambling, alcoholic beverages, firearms,
and other weapons (except for law enforcement officers within the scope of
their duties), loitering, trespassing, disorderly conduct, and illegally loud
noise, are prohibited.
   (C)   Reservation of facilities. Reservations must be made by written
application, and will be accepted and approved on a first come, first serve
basis. When renting the Scout Hut a key must be obtained from the Utility
Office on the Friday before the rental date. The key must be returned in the
night drop or in person by the time village offices open Monday morning.
   (D)   Responsibilities of person or group reserving facility. The person or
organization making the reservation assumes responsibility for any damages that
may occur. Damage and/or other violation of rules established may result in
denial of the use of the facilities in the future.
   (E)   Usage fees. Council, by motion, shall establish a schedule of fees for
the use of the facilities, which fees are subject to change from time to time,
by motion of Council.
   (F)   Damages to facility. Renter agrees to pay for repair of all damages
and breakage and replacement cost for lost or destroyed equipment. The village
cannot be held responsible for any lost or stolen items. This includes items
left outside or inside.
   (G)   Decorations. Decorating of facilities is allowed; however, must be
cleaned up properly including the removal of any tape, staples, push-pins, etc.
   (H)   When clearly inappropriate, these regulations shall not be applicable
to a concessionaire, permittee, or other person under contract with the village
who is acting within the scope of the contract or permit.
   (I)   Unless otherwise directed by the Mayor, Village Administrator, Park
Committee, or Chairman, all village parks shall be open for the enjoyment of
the public daily from dawn to dusk (seasonally) except for supervised groups
having authorization from the Mayor.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful within any village park to publicly solicit
unauthorized subscriptions, engage in selling, offering for sale any item,
service, labor and perform any gainful occupation, service, or labor for
another.
   (K)   It shall be unlawful to leave, throw, or drain upon the land or waters
of any park any garbage, rubbish, trash, junk paper, can, bottle, or other
offensive debris or substance. Whenever any renter fails to remove all trash or
causes any damage to the pavilion or surrounding grounds, the village reserves
the right to refuse to rent to that person, organization or corporation in the
future. Such failure will also result in loss of deposit.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful to climb or walk upon any picnic table; to climb
fences or buildings or to use any park facility or play equipment in a manner
beyond its safe capacity or intended use.
   (M)   It shall be unlawful to establish or maintain any camp trailer within
any village park or to be present after closing hours without written
permission from the Mayor. Application for any temporary camping trailer permit
must be submitted to the Mayor at least two weeks in advance.
   (N)   It shall be unlawful to build or maintain a fire in any village park
except for grills, receptacles, or fireplaces provided by the village for that
purpose.
   (O)   Any animal brought into any village park shall be under the complete
control of its owner or handler at all times by leash or other reasonable
tether. It is the responsibility of the handler to clean up and properly
dispose of any waste generated by the animal.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to remove, destroy, damage, or deface any public
or utility property or sign posted by the village, or to enter upon any place
which has been posted “No Admittance” or “Keep Out” or other similar warning.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle within any park at a
speed in excess of 15 m.p.h.
(Ord. 14-2019, passed 9-10-19)
§ 96.05  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any regulation contained in §96.04 shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and upon a second or subsequent conviction within one year of
the first, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 14-2019, passed 9-10-19)
MUNICIPAL SWIMMING POOL
§ 96.15  MANAGER OF SWIMMING POOL.
   (A)   The office or position of Manager and Assistant Manager of the
Plymouth Municipal Swimming Pool are hereby created, which office shall be
filled by appointment by the Village Administrator.
(`94 Code, § 967.01)
   (B)   The duties of the Manager and Assistant Manager shall be to manage and
take care of the swimming pool at Mary Fate Park. The management duties
include: to collect, reconcile, and deposit the money the same day of
collection. The same to managed and conducted in as safe and efficient manner.
For each daily bank deposit, a deposit slip shall be prepared along with copies
of the accounting paperwork, which shall be filed daily with the Village Fiscal
officer or his or her designee.
(`94 Code, § 967.02)  (Ord. 16-84, passed 7-10-84; Am. Ord. 11-2014, passed 5-
13-14)
§ 96.16  ASSISTANT MANAGER AND OTHER EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Assistant Manager. The office or position of Assistant Manager of the
Plymouth Municipal Swimming Pool is created, which office shall be filled by
appointment by the Village Administrator whose duties shall be maintaining the
chlorinator, filter and backwash equipment and/or such other duties as
prescribed by the Manager.
(`94 Code, § 967.03)
   (B)   Other employees. The Village Administrator is authorized and directed
to employ lifeguards whose duties shall be to guard and protect bathers in the
swimming pool at Mary Fate Park. The Village Administrator is also authorized
and directed to employ such extra help from time to time as may be necessary.
(`94 Code, § 967.04)
   (C)   Technician and guards. The positions of technician and guards of the
Plymouth Municipal Swimming Pool are created, which offices shall be filled by
appointment by the Village Administrator, whose duties shall be to perform
lifeguard duties and maintenance of the chlorinator, filter and backwash
equipment and/or such other duties as prescribed by the Manager.
(`94 Code, § 967.05)  (Ord. 16-84, passed 7-10-84; Am. Ord. 11-2014, passed 5-
13-14)
§ 96.17  (RESERVED)
§ 96.18  SWIMMING POOL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following rules and regulations shall be observed and obeyed by
all persons using the Plymouth Municipal Swimming Pool and surrounding park
facilities, and shall be enforced by the manager of the Swimming Pool and the
Police Department:
      (1)   Children under the age of seven years shall be accompanied by and
under the supervision of a person 16 years of age or older.
      (2)   No smoking by persons under the age of 18 years.
      (3)   No use of profanity.
      (4)   No causing of distractions to pool personnel.
      (5)   No running, pushing or horseplay.
      (6)   Inner tubes, goggles, snorkels, rafts, balls and other such items
are not permitted.
      (7)   All persons shall stay off framework and supports, floats and
lifelines.
      (8)   No glass articles are permitted in the bathing area.
      (9)   The deep end of the pool shall be used by qualified swimmers only.
      (10)   Only one person at a time shall be on the diving board.
      (11)   Diving shall only be directly forward of the end of the diving
board and persons shall bounce upon the diving board only once each time upon
the board.
      (12)   No swimming in the diving area.
      (13)   There shall be a 15-minute rest period each hour, for all persons
under the age of 18 years.
      (14)   Pool personnel may direct that any person violating any of these
rules be removed from the pool. The length of the period for which a person is
removed shall be determined by the Pool Manager.
   (B)   Council, by a motion duly made and approved, may make further rules
and regulations for the use of the swimming pool as it determines are needed
from time to time in order to ensure the most efficient, complete and orderly
utilization of the swimming pool facilities. Any such further rules shall be
posted at a convenient and conspicuous location at the swimming pool.
(`94 Code, § 967.07)  (Ord. 20-88, passed 6-20-88)
CHAPTER 97:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Centerlining of state highways
   
97.02   Obstructions
   
97.03   Removal of ice and snow
Excavations
   
97.15   Permit required
   
97.16   Application; covenants of insurance and restoration
   
97.17   Restoration costs
   
97.18   Manner of restoration
   
97.19   Limits on extension of excavations
   
97.20   Barricades and warning lights; abandoned excavations
Sidewalks
   
97.30   Construction widths
   
97.31   Materials and methods of construction
   
97.32   Notice to construct or repair
   
97.33   Noncompliance; remedy of village
   
97.34   Minor repairs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01  CENTERLINING OF STATE HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   The consent of the village is hereby given to the Ohio Department of
Transportation to centerline paint the state highways in the village.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer is hereby directed to furnish to the Ohio Director
of Transportation and to the Boards of County commissioners of Huron and
Richland Counties a certified copy of this section immediately upon the taking
effect thereof.
(`94 Code, § 921.01)  (Ord. 14-65, passed 4-20-65)
§ 97.02  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a sidewalk,
playground or other public place any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails or
other articles which may damage property of another or injure any person or
animal traveling along or upon such sidewalk or playground.
   (B)   No person shall walk on, or allow any animal upon, or injure or deface
in any way, any soft or newly laid sidewalk pavement.
   (C)   No person shall place, deposit or maintain any merchandise, goods,
material or equipment upon any sidewalk so as to obstruct pedestrian traffic
thereon except:
      (1)   For such reasonable time as may be actually necessary for the
delivery or pickup of such articles, in which case any such obstruction shall
remain on such sidewalk for not more than one hour; and except
      (2)   That during the hours of a community festival or celebration, which
hours shall be set by the Mayor in a written proclamation, sidewalks may be
used, in a manner approved by the Chief of Police, for the display of
merchandise or for display of advertising; and
      (3)   That sidewalk displays, in areas zoned for business and commercial
purposes, shall be permitted provided the same shall be limited to the area
within 36 inches from the front wall of the structure adjoining the sidewalk,
provided, however, that any such display may only remain upon the sidewalk
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
(`94 Code, § 521.04)  (Ord. 15-89, passed 8-8-89) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.03  REMOVAL OF ICE AND SNOW.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of abutting lands shall fail to keep the
sidewalks, curbs or gutters in repair and free from snow, ice or any nuisance.
No such person shall fail to remove snow and/or ice from the sidewalks within a
reasonable period after the cessation of a storm. Failure to remove the same
within 12 hours after the cessation of a storm shall be deemed prima-facie
unreasonable.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(`94 Code, § 521.06) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.15  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall dig into, excavate or open any part of any public street or
alley within the village for the purpose of putting in any drain, sewer, drain
or sewer pipe, water or gas pipe, or other conduit or main for making any gas,
water, sewer, electric light, telephone, telegraph or other connection, or for
the purpose of repairing or changing any sewer, drain, drain or sewer pipe,
water or gas pipe, or telephone or telegraph wire connection, or for any other
purpose whatsoever, without first obtaining from the Village Administrator, or
other officer designated by Council, a written permit to do so, which permit
shall be granted only upon the terms and conditions provided in this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 925.01) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.16  APPLICATION; COVENANTS OF INSURANCE AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to make an excavation in a public street or alley
of the village shall apply in writing to the Village Administrator or other
officer designated by Council for that purpose. The application shall set forth
the name of the applicant, the exact location of the proposed excavation, the
approximate size of the excavation or area of the surface proposed to be
removed, the purpose of the excavation or removal, the name of the insurance
carrier of the applicant, and the amount of insurance against public liability
owned by the applicant.
   (B)   The application shall contain a covenant that the work shall be done
and performed in full compliance with all the requirements of the village
relating thereto, and that the applicant will well and sufficiently save,
defend, keep harmless and indemnify the village from and against all actions,
suits, claims, demands, debts, costs, charges and damages whatsoever resulting
to any person or property by reason of the proposed excavation in or removal or
disturbance of the surface of the public street or alley or in the performance
of the work in connection therewith or in any matter or thing in relation
thereto.
(`94 Code, § 925.02)
   (C)   If the proposed excavation is to be made in an unimproved public
street or alley, the application for a permit shall contain a covenant that the
trench or excavation will be filled by the applicant in such a manner and with
such material as will restore the street or alley to a condition safe and
convenient for travel; that all of the work contemplated shall be subject to
the inspection and approval of the Village Administrator or other officer
designated by Council; and that if the applicant fails to restore the street or
alley to a good condition, permitting the safe and convenient travel of the
public thereon, he or she will pay to the village an amount equal to the cost
of the restoration by the village. Before a permit may be issued for an
excavation in an unimproved street or alley, the applicant shall deposit with
the Clerk-Treasurer $10 to cover the cost of inspection of the excavation and
restoration by the applicant.
(`94 Code, § 925.03) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.17  RESTORATION COSTS.
   (A)   Before a permit may be issued to make an excavation in the surface of
an improved public street or alley, the applicant shall deposit with the Clerk-
Treasurer, in addition to the fee provided for by §
97.16, $6 for each square foot of surface material removed or disturbed, to
cover the cost of restoration by the village. As soon as practical after the
completion of the work to be performed by the applicant, the village shall
repair the surface of highway removed by the applicant with bituminous surface
material or with a paving material of equivalent quality. If, after a period of
60 days from the date of the repair by the village of the surface of any
highway, it is determined by the Village Administrator or other officer
designated by Council that the opening has been adequately filled by the
applicant, the village shall refund to the applicant that portion of the amount
advanced by him or her in excess of the cost of restoration.
(`94 Code, § 925.04)
   (B)   In addition to the fees required in §
97.16 and division (A) above of this section, there shall be a charge of $300
for an excavation in any street within three years from the date such street
was paved or resurfaced.
(`94 Code, § 925.06)
§ 97.18  MANNER OF RESTORATION.
   All water, sewer and gas pipes and other conduits and mains shall be laid on
a layer of sand or stone dust at least four inches in depth, and then filled
with the same to a depth of six inches above the top of the pipe, with a side
cover of at least four inches. All excavations in the traveled portion of
public streets and alleys shall be filled and tamped with clean coarse gravel
to the street level and made passable for traffic. In grass plots or nontraffic
locations, the trench may be filled with the earth or material removed and then
tamped. All coarse or lumpy earth shall be pulverized before placing it in the
trench. All grass plots shall be replaced to their original condition.
(`94 Code, § 925.05) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.19  LIMITS ON EXTENSION OF EXCAVATIONS.
   An excavation in a public street or alley from the curb line shall not
extend in the roadway a distance greater than one foot beyond the centerline of
the street or alley before being refilled and the surface of the street or
alley restored to a condition safe and convenient for travel.
(`94 Code, § 925.07) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.20  BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS; ABANDONED EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   When an applicant has been granted permission to make an excavation in
any public street or alley, he or she shall keep the excavation properly
barricaded and protected until it has been filled by him or her as herein
provided and approved by the Village Administrator or other officer designated
by Council. During the night, appropriate lights shall be placed by the
applicant near the excavation to ensure proper protection to the public.
(`94 Code, § 925.08)
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on public
or private property, any excavation, well, cesspool or structure which is in
the process of construction, reconstruction, repair or alteration unless the
same is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning
devices or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove
dangerous to life or limb.
      (2)   No person shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any barricade
or warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so as to
prevent injury to life or limb.
      (3)   Any owner or agent in control of a premises upon which a basement,
cellar, well or cistern has been abandoned due to demolition, failure to build
or any other reason shall cause the same to be filled to the ground surface
with rock, gravel, earth or other suitable material.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(`94 Code, § 521.03) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 97.30  CONSTRUCTION WIDTHS.
   (A)   All sidewalks constructed in the village shall be of the widths
specified in division (B) of this section, and on any new street or a street on
which Council has not determined the width, it shall do so at the request of
any property owner thereon who is desirous of constructing a sidewalk.
(`94 Code, § 923.01)
   (B)   All public sidewalks constructed in the village on streets not
specifically provided for shall be of the widths specified as follows: On all
public streets three rods or more wide, such sidewalks shall be six feet in
width, provided that all new sidewalks abutting business blocks and places, and
sidewalks ordered repaired in front of and abutting such business places, shall
be constructed to extend from the line of such buildings to the curb; and on
all public streets less than three rods wide, such sidewalks shall be not less
than four feet in width. All sidewalks shall be laid of uniform grade, with
edges in line, parallel with the center of the street. No person shall
construct any public street in the village contrary to the provisions of this
section.
(`94 Code, § 923.02)
§ 97.31  MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   All public sidewalks constructed in the village shall be of sawed stone
flagging or concrete not less than four inches in thickness, three inches of
concrete mixture, one of cement and two of sand, together making the above four
inches. Such sidewalks are to be laid on natural dirt if the grade is right. If
filling is required, such filling shall be of cinders or sand. However, if the
assessed valuation of any property abutting any sidewalk ordered to be
constructed of the materials herein specified is insufficient to pay the cost
of the same, under the limitations provided by the statutes of the state,
Council may order the sidewalks to be constructed of cinders or other
materials, except for materials the cost of which would exceed the amount which
may be legally assessed against such abutting property, for construction of the
same. However, no sidewalk in the village shall be made or constructed, either
whole or in part, of wood or brick, except for the purpose of repairing old
sidewalks.
(`94 Code, § 923.03) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.32  NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   Whenever, in the opinion of Council, it is necessary to construct or repair
any sidewalk, Council shall pass a resolution specifying the location and
character of the sidewalk to be repaired or constructed. The Clerk-Treasurer
shall cause notice thereof, which notice shall embrace a copy of the
resolution, to be served upon the proper party. Every such notice shall be
served either personally or by being left at the usual place of residence of
the person to be notified, but if any person entitled to such notice cannot be
served, then the Clerk-Treasurer shall cause a notice to such person, including
a copy of such resolution, to be published for two weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village. The Clerk-Treasurer shall make return to
Council of the time and manner of service of each notice issued by him or her
under this section.
(`94 Code, § 923.04)
§ 97.33  NONCOMPLIANCE; REMEDY OF VILLAGE.
   If a sidewalk ordered to be constructed or repaired is not constructed
within 15 days or repaired within ten days from the service of notice or
completion of the publication, Council may have the same done at the expense of
the owner, and such expense shall constitute a lien upon the property bounding
or abutting thereon and shall be collected in the same manner, with a penalty
of 5% and interest after failure to pay at the time fixed for the payment of
the assessment, as in other cases of improvement. The remedy provided for
herein is in addition to the penalty provided in §
10.99.
(`94 Code, § 923.05) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 97.34  MINOR REPAIRS.
   Council may, by resolution, designate an officer of the village who shall,
whenever it comes to his or her knowledge that any dangerous defect exists in a
sidewalk, the total cost of repairing which is to be charged to any parcel of
land and will not exceed $50, to forthwith, in like manner and with like effect
as is set forth in §
97.32, serve and return a notice to the owner of such land, or his or her
agent, stating that if such repairs are not made within three days by such
owner, the same will be made at his or her expense, at a reasonable cost to be
stated in the notice, and that if such cost is not paid to the Clerk-Treasurer
within 15 days after such repair is made, the same shall be charged against
such land as taxes, and that if such repair is not made within three days after
the service of such notice, such designated officer shall forthwith repair the
same and report the fact to the Clerk-Treasurer who shall thereafter certify
the sum named in the notice, if not paid within 15 days, to the Auditor of the
County in which such property is located for taxation. But such sum shall be in
each case a reasonable charge for the material furnished and work performed,
and if it appears in the return in any case that such owner is a nonresident of
the village, or that neither such owner or his or her agent can be found, then
such notice may be given publication in some newspaper of general circulation
in such corporation. Nothing in this section shall interfere with or affect any
provision of §
97.32.
(`94 Code, § 923.06) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 98:  TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Short title
   
98.02   Definitions
Public Tree Care
   
98.15   Abuse and mutilation of public trees
   
98.16   Removal of trees on public property
   
98.17   Trimming trees on private property
   
98.18   Replacement of trees
   
98.19   Protection of trees
   
98.20   Placing materials on public property
   
98.21   Obstruction; pruning trees
Administration and Enforcement
   
98.35   Shade Tree Commission
   
98.36   Shade tree plan for new developments
   
98.37   Permits required
   
98.38   Commission as trustee
   
98.39   Interference with Commission
 
   
98.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Shade Tree Ordinance of
the Village of Plymouth, Ohio.
(`94 Code, § 927.01)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
§ 98.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.  When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural include the singular and words in the singular
include the plural. "Shall" is mandatory and not merely directory.
   DRIPLINE.  The approximately circular vertical extension to the ground of
the outermost branches and leaves of the tree as an indication of the spread of
the root system.
   LARGE TREES.  Those attaining a height of 45 feet or more.
   LAWN STRIP, STREET LAWN or CURB STRIP.  That part of a street or highway
right-of-way outside of the portion improved for travel, including the
sidewalks.
   MEDIUM TREES.  Those attaining a height of 30 to 45 feet.
   PARK.  Includes all public parks.
   PERSON.  Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PROPERTY LINE.  The legal boundary line.
   PROPERTY OWNER.  The person owning such property as shown by the deed
records of the County Recorders of Richland and Huron Counties, State of Ohio.
   PUBLIC LANDS, PUBLIC AREAS or PUBLIC PROPERTY.  Includes all other grounds
owned by the Village of Plymouth, Ohio.
   PUBLIC TREES.  Includes all shade and ornamental trees now or hereafter
growing on any street, including the lawn strip, tree lawn or curb strip or on
any other public land.
   SHADE OR ORNAMENTAL TREE OR SHRUB.  Any and all woody vegetation.
   SMALL TREES.  Those attaining a height of 20 to 30 feet.
   STREET or HIGHWAY.  The entire width of every public way or right-of-way
when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of right,
for purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   TREES.  Includes all trees, regardless of species and height, and all woody
shrubs, regardless of size or height.
   VILLAGE.  The incorporated Village of Plymouth, Ohio.
(`94 Code, § 927.02)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
PUBLIC TREE CARE
§ 98.15  ABUSE AND MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES.
   (A)   Unless specifically authorized by the Shade Tree Commission, no person
shall recklessly damage, cut, carve, whether above or below ground, or
transplant or remove any tree or shrub; attach a rope, wire, nails, advertising
posters or other contrivance to any tree or shrub; allow any gaseous liquid or
solid substance which is harmful to such trees or shrubs to come in contact
with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn when such fire or the heat
therefrom will injure any portion of any tree or shrub.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the
injury caused. If the property can be restored substantially to is former
condition, damages shall be the reasonable cost of restoring the property. If
the property cannot be restored substantially to its former condition, damages
shall be the cost of replacing the tree or shrub with new plantings of like
kind, quality and, if possible, size.
(`94 Code, § 927.07)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.16  REMOVAL OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Trees or shrubs planted upon a public way, curb strip, street, alley or
village property may be removed by the village as necessary to protect the
public health, safety, welfare and aesthetics. The Shade Tree Commission may
cause the removal of any such tree or shrub by using village employees,
Commission members or private contractors under contract with the village.
(`94 Code, § 927.09)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.17  TRIMMING TREES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The Village Administrator is authorized to trim privately owned trees that
overhang village property and public rights-of-way when the Village
Administrator determines such condition creates a risk to public safety.
Trimming shall be limited to the tree limbs that overhang withing the village
property or public rights-of-way.
(`94 Code, § 927.10)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85; Am. Ord. 27-2014, passed 10-
28-14)
§ 98.18  REPLACEMENT OF TREES.
   Any person or property owner granted permission to remove a tree from the
village streets or properties for the purpose of construction shall replace the
removed tree or trees according to the specifications of the Shade Tree
Commission. The person or property owner shall bear the cost of replacing all
trees removed.
(`94 Code, § 927.11)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
§ 98.19  PROTECTION OF TREES.
   (A)   All trees on any street or other publicly owned property near any
excavation or construction of any building, structure or street work, shall be
guarded with a good substantial fence, frame or box not less than four feet
high and eight feet square, or at a distance in feet from the tree equal to the
diameter of the trunk in inches D.B.H., whichever is greater, and all building
material, dirt or other debris shall be kept outside the barrier.
   (B)   No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches, or lay any
drive within a radius of ten feet from any public tree without first obtaining
a written permit from the Shade Tree Commission.
(`94 Code, § 927.12)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.20  PLACING MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon any public place of
the village, any stone, brick, sand, concrete or other materials which may
impede the free passage of water, air and fertilizer to the roots of any tree
growing therein, except by written permit of the Shade Tree Commission.
(`94 Code, § 927.13)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.21  OBSTRUCTION; PRUNING TREES.
   (A)   Any person or persons owning or occupying real property bordering on
any street upon which property there may be trees, shall prune such trees in
such manner that they will not obstruct or shade the street lights, obstruct
the passage of pedestrians on sidewalks, obstruct the vision of traffic signs
or obstruct the view of any street or alley intersection.
   (B)   The minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof shall be ten
feet over sidewalks, and 12 feet over all streets except truck thoroughfares,
which shall have a clearance of 16 feet.
   (C)   Should any person owning real property bordering on any street fail to
prune trees as herein provided, the Shade Tree Commission shall order such
person to prune such trees within ten days after receipt of the written notice
to prune.
   (D)   When a person to whom an order is directed fails to comply within the
specified time, the village shall prune such trees, and the exact cost thereof
shall be assessed to the owner as provided by law in the case of special
assessments.
(`94 Code, § 927.14)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 98.35  SHADE TREE COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. There shall be created a commission to be known and
designated as “Shade Tree Commission” composed of five resident-electors of the
village. Four of the members shall be appointed by Council, one of which shall
be a member of Council, and the fifth member shall be the Mayor. The terms of
the persons of the Commission appointed by Council, excluding the member of
Council, shall be three years, except the term of the members appointed to the
first Commission shall be as follows: one member for three years, one member
for two years, and one member for one year. In the event that a vacancy occurs
during the term of any member, his/her successor shall be appointed for the
unexpired portion of such term.
   (B)   Compensation. Members of the Commission shall serve without
compensation but shall be entitled to reimbursement for any and all necessary
expenditures in carrying out the function of the Commission, as approved by
Council.
   (C)   Duties.  The duties of the Commission shall be as follows:
      (1)   To study the problems and determine the needs of the village, in
regard to tree planting, maintenance, protection and removal.
      (2)   To recommend to the proper authority, the type and kind of trees to
be planted upon such village streets or parts of village streets or in parks or
other public lands.
      (3)   To assist the properly constituted officials of the village, as
well as Council and residents of the village, in the dissemination of news and
information regarding the selection, planting and maintenance of trees within
the corporate limits, whether the same is on private or public property, and to
make such recommendations from time to time to Council as to desirable
legislation concerning the tree program and activities for the municipality.
      (4)   To provide regular and special meetings at which the subject of
trees insofar as it relates to the municipality may be discussed by the members
of the Commission, officers and personnel of the village and its several
divisions, and all others interested in the tree program.
   (D)   Meetings; rules.  Within a reasonable time after the appointment of
the Commission and the approval of the members thereof, upon call of Council,
the Commission shall meet and organize by the election of a chairman and the
appointment of a secretary. The Commission shall then provide for the adoption
of rules and procedures and for the holding of regular and special meetings as
the Commission deems advisable and necessary in order to perform the duties set
forth.
(`94 Code, § 927.03)
   (E)   Authority.
      (1)   The Shade Tree Commission shall have the authority to promulgate
the rules and regulations of the Arboricultural Specifications and Standards of
Practice governing the planting, maintenance, removal, fertilization, pruning
and bracing of trees on the streets or other public sites in the village, and
shall direct, regulate and control the planting, maintenance and removal of all
trees growing now or hereafter in any public area of the village. The
Commission shall cause the provisions of this chapter to be enforced.
      (2)   The Commission shall have the authority and jurisdiction of
regulating the planting, maintenance and removal of trees on streets and other
publicly owned property to insure safety or preserve the aesthetics of such
public sites, in accordance with the permit system contained in the terms of
this chapter.
      (3)   The Commission shall have the authority and duty to supervise or
inspect all work done under a permit issued in accordance with the terms of
this chapter.
      (4)   The Commission shall have the authority to affix reasonable
conditions to the granting of a permit in accordance with the terms of this
chapter.
      (5)   The Commission shall have the authority to formulate a Master
Street Tree Plan. The Master Street Tree Plan shall specify the species of tree
to be planted on each of the streets or other public sites of the Municipality.
From and after the effective date of the Master Street Tree Plan, or any
amendment thereof, all planting shall conform thereto.
         (a)   The Commission shall consider all existing and future utility
and environmental factors when recommending a specific species for each of the
streets and other public sites of the village.
         (b)   The Commission shall have the authority to amend or add to the
Master Street Tree Plan at any time that circumstances make it advisable.
(`94 Code, § 927.04)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
§ 98.36  SHADE TREE PLAN FOR NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Any new street developed by a private developer and dedicated to the
village shall have Street Tree Plan approved by the Shade Tree Commission. As
an alternative, the developer may permit the Commission to develop the Street
Tree Plans, in either case the cost of all trees is to be paid by the
developer.
   (B)   A bond shall be posted by the developer, the amount of which shall be
determined by the Commission, with Council's approval, for future
implementation of the Street Tree Plan. This requirement shall be added to the
list of subdivision requirements.
(`94 Code, § 927.05)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
§ 98.37  PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall hereafter plant or remove any tree or shrub upon any
public way, street, alley, park or other property owned by the village, unless
he first obtains a permit, in writing, from the Shade Tree Commission,
specifying the size, type, species and location so to be planted.
   (B)   The Commission shall have the authority to deny a permit to any person
who proposes to plant any tree or shrub upon a public way, street, alley, park
or other property owned by the village of a size, type or species found by the
Commission to be undesirable for the location proposed; or may deny a permit to
any person who proposes to plant any tree or shrub upon a public way, street,
alley, park or other property owned by the village if at a location found by
the Commission to be of a size or type unsuitable for planting of trees or
shrubs.
   (C)   The Commission shall have the authority to deny a permit to any person
who proposes to remove any tree or shrub upon a public way, street, alley, park
or other property owned by the village when such removal does not benefit the
preservation of public health, safety and welfare.
   (D)   Every permit issued by the Commission shall be in writing and shall
describe the work to be done, specify the species or variety, size, nursery
grade, location, shall briefly specify the method of planting, method of
support and trimming of all trees or shrubs concerned, and contain a definite
expiration date. Any permit may be declared void if its terms are violated.
   (E)   The Commission shall meet and render a decision on any permit
application within 14 days of receipt of the application of the Commission.
(`94 Code, § 927.06)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
§ 98.38  COMMISSION AS TRUSTEE.
   The Shade Tree Commission may act as trustee for any property, assets or
funds donated to the municipality for the care and maintenance of trees or
shrubs, provided the donor designates or provides for the designation of the
Commission as such trustee. In such an event, the Commission shall have all
those powers and duties necessary to carry out the purpose of the trust.
(`94 Code, § 927.08)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
§ 98.39  INTERFERENCE WITH COMMISSION.
   No person shall hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with the Shade Tree
Commission while engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this
chapter; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as an
attempt to prohibit the pursuit of any remedy, legal or equitable, in any court
of competent jurisdiction for the protection of property rights by the owner of
any property within the municipality.
(`94 Code, § 927.15)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
§ 98.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter or fails to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or
noncompliance occurs or continues.
(`94 Code, § 927.99)  (Ord. 9-85, passed 11-12-85)
CHAPTER 99:  UNCLAIMED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
99.01   Impounding motor vehicle on private property; requirements
   
99.02   Impounding motor vehicle on public property; notice; disposition
   
99.03   Disposition of vehicle ordered into storage
   
99.04   Disposition of abandoned junk motor vehicles
   
99.05   Abandonment of junk motor vehicle prohibited
   
99.06   Junk motor vehicle; order to cover or remove; notice; exceptions
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances generally, see
Ch. 95
§ 99.01  IMPOUNDING MOTOR VEHICLE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The Sheriff or Chief of Police, upon complaint of any person
adversely affected, may order into storage any motor vehicle, other than an
abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that has been left
on private residential or private agricultural property for at least four hours
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property. The Sheriff or Chief of Police, upon complaint of a repair garage or
place of storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle, other than an
abandoned junk motor vehicle, that has been left at the garage or place of
storage for a longer period than that agreed upon. When ordering a motor
vehicle into storage pursuant to this division, the Sheriff or Chief of Police
may arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle by a towing service and shall
designate a storage facility.
      (2)   A towing service towing a motor vehicle under division (A)(1) of
this section shall remove the motor vehicle in accordance with that division.
The towing service shall deliver the motor vehicle to the location designated
by the Sheriff or Chief of Police not more than two hours after the time it is
removed from the private property, unless the towing service is unable to
deliver the motor vehicle within two hours due to an uncontrollable force,
natural disaster, or other event that is not within the power of the towing
service.
      (3)   Subject to division (B) of this section, the owner of a motor
vehicle that has been removed pursuant to this division may recover the vehicle
only in accordance with division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As used in this section, PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY means private
property on which is located one or more structures that are used as a home,
residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons, if no more than three
separate households are maintained in the structure or structures.  The phrase
does not include any private property on which is located one or more
structures that are used as a home, residence, or sleeping place by two or more
persons, if more than three separate households are maintained in the structure
or structures.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner or operator of a motor vehicle that has been
ordered into storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section arrives after
the motor vehicle has been prepared for removal, but prior to its actual
removal from the property, the towing service shall give the owner or operator
oral or written notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner
or operator may pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal
of the motor vehicle established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules
adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, in order to obtain release of the motor vehicle.
However, if the vehicle is within a municipal corporation and the municipal
corporation has established a vehicle removal fee, the towing service shall
give the owner or operator oral or written notification that the owner or
operator may pay not more than one-half of that fee to obtain release of the
motor vehicle. That fee may be paid by use of a major credit card unless the
towing service uses a mobile credit card processor and mobile service is not
available at the time of the transaction.
      (2)   Upon payment of the applicable fee, the towing service shall give
the vehicle owner or operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally
assessed and the actual amount received and shall release the motor vehicle to
the owner or operator. Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately
shall move it so that it is not on the private residential or private
agricultural property without the permission of the person having the right to
possession of the property, or is not at the garage or place of storage without
the permission of the owner, whichever is applicable.
   (C)   (1)   The Sheriff and Chief of Police shall maintain a record of motor
vehicles that the Sheriff or Chief of Police orders into storage pursuant to
division (A)(1) of this section. The record shall include an entry for each
such motor vehicle that identifies the motor vehicle’s license number, make,
model, and color, the location from which it was removed, the date and time of
its removal, the telephone number of the person from whom it may be recovered,
and the address of the place to which it has been taken and from which it may
be recovered. The Sheriff or Chief of Police shall provide any information in
the record that pertains to a particular motor vehicle to any person who,
either in person or pursuant to a telephone call, identifies self as the owner
or operator of the motor vehicle and requests information pertaining to its
location.
      (2)   Any person who registers a complaint that is the basis of the
Sheriff’s or Police Chief’s order for the removal and storage of a motor
vehicle under division (A)(1) of this section shall provide the identity of the
law enforcement agency with which the complaint was registered to any person
who identifies self as the owner or operator of the motor vehicle and requests
information pertaining to its location.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lienholder of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section may reclaim it upon both of
the following:
         (a)   Payment of all applicable fees established by the Public
Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 or, if the vehicle
was towed within a municipal corporation that has established fees for vehicle
removal and storage, payment of all applicable fees established by the
municipal corporation.
         (b)   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by a
certificate of title to the motor vehicle, a certificate of registration for
the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement.
      (2)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves the
vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the vehicle
shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the motor
vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action under
R.C. § 4513.611.
      (3)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership as required under division
(D)(1)(b) of this section, the owner of a motor vehicle that is ordered into
storage under division (A)(1) of this section may retrieve any personal items
from the motor vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. However, a towing service or storage facility may charge an after-hours
retrieval fee established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted
under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner retrieves the personal items after hours,
unless the towing service or storage facility fails to provide the notice
required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if applicable. The owner of a motor
vehicle shall not do either of the following:
         (a)   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the
Sheriff or Chief of Police, as applicable, to be necessary to a criminal
investigation;
         (b)   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
      (4)   For purposes of division (D)(3) of this section, “personal items”
do not include any items that are attached to the motor vehicle.
      (5)   If a motor vehicle that is ordered into storage pursuant to
division (A)(1) of this section remains unclaimed by the owner for 30 days, the
procedures established by R.C. §§ 4513.61 and 4513.62 apply.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any motor
vehicle from any private residential or private agricultural property other
than in accordance with division (A)(1) of this section or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to
4513.65.
      (2)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (F)   This section does not apply to any private residential or private
agricultural property that is established as a private tow-away zone in
accordance with division (H) of this section or R.C. § 4513.601.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.60)  (`94 Code, §§ 303.081, 303.082, 303.083)
   (H)   Private tow-away zones.
      (1)   The owner of a private property may establish a private tow-away
zone, but may do so only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:
         (a)   The owner of the private property posts on the property a sign,
that is at least 18 inches by 24 inches in size, that is visible from all
entrances to the property, and that includes all of the following information:
            1.   A statement that the property is a tow-away zone;
            2.   A description of persons authorized to park on the property.
If the property is a residential property, the owner of the private property
may include on the sign a statement that only tenants and guests may park in
the private tow-away zone, subject to the terms of the property owner. If the
property is a commercial property, the owner of the private property may
include on the sign a statement that only customers may park in the private
tow-away zone. In all cases, if it is not apparent which persons may park in
the private tow-away zone, the owner of the private property shall include on
the sign the address of the property on which the private tow-away zone is
located or the name of the business that is located on the property designated
as a private tow-away zone.
            3.   If the private tow-away zone is not enforceable at all times,
the times during which the parking restrictions are enforced;
            4.   The telephone number and the address of the place from which a
towed vehicle may be recovered at any time during the day or night;
            5.   A statement that the failure to recover a towed vehicle may
result in the loss of title to the vehicle as provided in R.C. § 4505.101(B).
            6.   In order to comply with the requirements of division (H)(1)(a)
of this section, the owner of a private property may modify an existing sign by
affixing to the existing sign stickers or an addendum in lieu of replacing the
sign.
         (b)   A towing service ensures that a vehicle towed under this
division (H) is taken to a location from which it may be recovered that
complies with all of the following:
            1.   It is located within 25 linear miles of the location of the
private tow- away zone, unless it is not practicable to take the vehicle to a
place of storage within 25 linear miles.
            2.   It is well-lighted.
            3.   It is on or within a reasonable distance of a regularly
scheduled route of one or more modes of public transportation, if any public
transportation is available in the municipal corporation or township in which
the private tow-away zone is located.
      (2)   (a)   If a vehicle is parked on private property that is
established as a private tow-away zone in accordance with division (H)(1) of
this section, without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation, the owner of the
private property may cause the removal of the vehicle by a towing service. The
towing service shall remove the vehicle in accordance with this division (H).
The vehicle owner and the operator of the vehicle are considered to have
consented to the removal and storage of the vehicle, to the payment of the
applicable fees established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted
under R.C. § 4921.25, and to the right of a towing service to obtain title to
the vehicle if it remains unclaimed as provided in R.C. § 4505.101. The owner
or lienholder of a vehicle that has been removed under this division (H),
subject to division (H)(3) of this section, may recover the vehicle in
accordance with division (H)(7) of this section.
         (b)   If a municipal corporation requires tow trucks and tow truck
operators to be licensed, no owner of a private property located within the
municipal corporation shall cause the removal and storage of any vehicle
pursuant to division (H)(2) of this section by an unlicensed tow truck or
unlicensed tow truck operator.
         (c)   No towing service shall remove a vehicle from a private tow-away
zone except pursuant to a written contract for the removal of vehicles entered
into with the owner of the private property on which the private tow-away zone
is located.
      (3)   If the owner or operator of a vehicle that is being removed under
authority of division (H)(2) of this section arrives after the vehicle has been
prepared for removal, but prior to its actual removal from the property, the
towing service shall give the vehicle owner or operator oral or written
notification at the time of such arrival that the vehicle owner or operator may
pay a fee of not more than one-half of the fee for the removal of the vehicle
established by the Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. §
4921.25 in order to obtain release of the vehicle. That fee may be paid by use
of a major credit card unless the towing service uses a mobile credit card
processor and mobile service is not available at the time of the transaction.
Upon payment of that fee, the towing service shall give the vehicle owner or
operator a receipt showing both the full amount normally assessed and the
actual amount received and shall release the vehicle to the owner or operator.
Upon its release, the owner or operator immediately shall move the vehicle so
that the vehicle is not parked on the private property established as a private
tow-away zone without the consent of the owner of the private property or in
violation of any posted parking condition or regulation.
      (4)   (a)   Prior to towing a vehicle under division (H)(2) of this
section, a towing service shall make all reasonable efforts to take as many
photographs as necessary to evidence that the vehicle is clearly parked on
private property in violation of a private tow-away zone established under
division (H)(1) of this section. The towing service shall record the time and
date of the photographs taken under this division (H). The towing service shall
retain the photographs and the record of the time and date, in electronic or
printed form, for at least 30 days after the date on which the vehicle is
recovered by the owner or lienholder or at least two years after the date on
which the vehicle was towed, whichever is earlier.
         (b)   A towing service shall deliver a vehicle towed under division
(H)(2) of this section to the location from which it may be recovered not more
than two hours after the time it was removed from the private tow-away zone,
unless the towing service is unable to deliver the motor vehicle within two
hours due to an uncontrollable force, natural disaster, or other event that is
not within the power of the towing service.
      (5)   (a)   If an owner of a private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone in accordance with division (H)(1) of this section causes
the removal of a vehicle from that property by a towing service under division
(H)(2) of this section, the towing service, within two hours of removing the
vehicle, shall provide notice to the Sheriff or the Police Department
concerning all of the following:
            1.   The vehicle’s license number, make, model, and color;
            2.   The location from which the vehicle was removed;
            3.   The date and time the vehicle was removed;
            4.   The telephone number of the person from whom the vehicle may
be recovered;
            5.   The address of the place from which the vehicle may be
recovered.
         (b)   The Sheriff and Chief of Police shall maintain a record of any
vehicle removed from private property in the Sheriff’s or Police Chief’s
jurisdiction that is established as a private tow-away zone of which the
Sheriff or Police Chief has received notice under this division (H). The record
shall include all information submitted by the towing service. The Sheriff or
Police Chief shall provide any information in the record that pertains to a
particular vehicle to a person who, either in person or pursuant to a telephone
call, identifies self as the owner, operator, or lienholder of the vehicle and
requests information pertaining to the vehicle.
      (6)   (a)   When a vehicle is removed from private property in accordance
with this division (H), within three business days of the removal, the towing
service or storage facility from which the vehicle may be recovered shall cause
a search to be made of the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to ascertain
the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor vehicle. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall ensure that such information is provided in a
timely manner. Subject to division (H)(6)(d) of this section, the towing
service or storage facility shall send notice to the vehicle owner and any
known lienholder as follows:
            1.   Within five business days after the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles provides the identity of the owner and any lienholder of the motor
vehicle, if the vehicle remains unclaimed, to the owner’s and lienholder’s last
known address by certified or express mail with return receipt requested or by
a commercial carrier service utilizing any form of delivery requiring a signed
receipt;
            2.   If the vehicle remains unclaimed 30 days after the first
notice is sent, in the manner required under division (H)(6)(a)1. of this
section;
         (b)   Sixty days after any notice sent pursuant to division (H)(6)(a)
of this section is received, as evidenced by a receipt signed by any person, or
the towing service or storage facility has been notified that delivery was not
possible, the towing service or storage facility, if authorized under R.C. §
4505.101(B), may initiate the process for obtaining a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle as provided in that section.
         (c)   A towing service or storage facility that does not receive a
signed receipt of notice, or a notification that delivery was not possible,
shall not obtain, and shall not attempt to obtain, a certificate of title to
the motor vehicle under R.C. § 4505.101(B).
         (d)   With respect to a vehicle concerning which a towing service or
storage facility is not eligible to obtain title under R.C. § 4505.101, the
towing service or storage facility need only comply with the initial notice
required under division (H)(6)(a)1. of this section.
      (7)   (a)   The owner or lienholder of a vehicle that is removed under
division (H)(2) of this section may reclaim it upon both of the following:
            1.   Presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement;
            2.   Payment of the following fees:
               a.   All applicable fees established by the Public Utilities
Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25, except that the lienholder of
a vehicle may retrieve the vehicle without paying any storage fee for the
period of time that the vehicle was in the possession of the towing service or
storage facility prior to the date the lienholder received the notice sent
under division (H)(6)(a)1. of this section;
               b.   If notice has been sent to the owner and lienholder as
described in division (H)(6) of this section, a processing fee of $25.
         (b)   A towing service or storage facility in possession of a vehicle
that is removed under authority of division (H)(2) of this section shall show
the vehicle owner, operator, or lienholder who contests the removal of the
vehicle all photographs taken under division (H)(4) of this section. Upon
request, the towing service or storage facility shall provide a copy of all
photographs in the medium in which the photographs are stored, whether paper,
electronic, or otherwise.
         (c)   When the owner of a vehicle towed under this section retrieves
the vehicle, the towing service or storage facility in possession of the
vehicle shall give the owner written notice that if the owner disputes that the
motor vehicle was lawfully towed, the owner may be able to file a civil action
under R.C. § 4513.611.
         (d)   Upon presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced
by a certificate of title to the vehicle, a certificate of registration for the
motor vehicle, or a lease agreement, the owner of a vehicle that is removed
under authority of division (H)(2) of this section may retrieve any personal
items from the vehicle without retrieving the vehicle and without paying any
fee. The owner of the vehicle shall not retrieve any personal items from a
vehicle if it would endanger the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees
to sign a waiver of liability. For purposes of division (H)(7)(d) of this
section, “personal items” do not include any items that are attached to the
vehicle.
      (8)   No person shall remove, or cause the removal of, any vehicle from
private property that is established as a private tow-away zone under this
division (H) or store such a vehicle other than in accordance with this
division (H), or otherwise fail to comply with any applicable requirement of
this division (H).
      (9)   This section does not affect or limit the operation of divisions
(A) through (G) of this section, R.C. § 4513.60 or R.C. §§ 4513.61 to 4613.65
as they relate to property other than private property that is established as a
private tow-away zone under division (H)(1) of this section.
      (10)   Whoever violates division (H)(8) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (11)   As used in this section, “owner of a private property” or “owner
of the private property” includes, with respect to a private property, any of
the following:
         (a)   Any person who holds title to the property;
         (b)   Any person who is a lessee or sublessee with respect to a lease
or sublease agreement for the property;
         (c)   A person who is authorized to manage the property;
         (d)   A duly authorized agent of any person listed in divisions (H)
(11)(a) to (H)(11)(c) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.601)
§ 99.02  IMPOUNDING MOTOR VEHICLE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY; NOTICE; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The County Sheriff or Chief of Police, within the Sheriff’s or Chief’s
respective territorial jurisdiction, or a state highway patrol trooper, upon
notification to the Sheriff or Chief of Police of such action and of the
location of the place of storage, may order into storage any motor vehicle,
including an abandoned junk motor vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4513.63, that:
      (1)   Has come into the possession of the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or
state highway patrol trooper as a result of the performance of the Sheriff’s,
Chief’s, or trooper’s duties; or
      (2)   Has been left on a public street or other property open to the
public for purposes of vehicular travel, or upon or within the right-of-way of
any road or highway, for 48 hours or longer without notification to the Sheriff
or Chief of Police of the reasons for leaving the motor vehicle in such place.
However, when such a motor vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic it may
be ordered into storage immediately unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   The vehicle was involved in an accident and is subject to R.C. §
4513.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   The vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle. If the vehicle is a
commercial motor vehicle, the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol
trooper shall allow the owner or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to
arrange for the removal of the motor vehicle within a period of time specified
by the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper. If the
Sheriff, Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper determines that the
vehicle cannot be removed within the specified period of time, the Sheriff,
Chief of Police, or state highway patrol trooper shall order the removal of the
vehicle.
      (3)   Subject to division (C) of this section, the Sheriff or Chief of
Police shall designate the place of storage of any motor vehicle so ordered
removed.
   (B)   If the Sheriff, Chief of Police, or a state highway patrol trooper
issues an order under division (A) of this section and arranges for the removal
of a motor vehicle by a towing service, the towing service shall deliver the
motor vehicle to the location designated by the Sheriff or Chief of Police not
more than two hours after the time it is removed.
   (C)   (1)   The Sheriff or Chief of Police shall cause a search to be made
of the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles to ascertain the identity of the
owner and any lienholder of a motor vehicle ordered into storage by the Sheriff
or Chief of Police, or by a state highway patrol trooper within five business
days of the removal of the vehicle. Upon obtaining such identity, the Sheriff
or Chief of Police shall send or cause to be sent to the owner or lienholder at
the owner’s or lienholder’s last known address by certified mail with return
receipt requested, notice that informs the owner or lienholder that the motor
vehicle will be declared a nuisance and disposed of if not claimed within ten
days of the date of mailing of the notice.
      (2)   (a)   The owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle may reclaim the
motor vehicle upon payment of any expenses or charges incurred in its removal
and storage, and presentation of proof of ownership, which may be evidenced by
a certificate of title or memorandum certificate of title to the motor vehicle,
a certificate of registration for the motor vehicle, or a lease agreement. Upon
presentation of proof of ownership evidenced as provided above, the owner of
the motor vehicle also may retrieve any personal items from the vehicle without
retrieving the vehicle and without paying any fee. However, a towing service or
storage facility may charge an after-hours retrieval fee established by the
Public Utilities Commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25 if the owner
retrieves the personal items after hours, unless the towing service or storage
facility fails to provide the notice required under R.C. § 4513.69(B)(3), if
applicable. However, the owner shall not do either of the following:
            1.   Retrieve any personal item that has been determined by the
Sheriff, Chief of Police, or a state highway patrol trooper, as applicable, to
be necessary to a criminal investigation;
            2.   Retrieve any personal item from a vehicle if it would endanger
the safety of the owner, unless the owner agrees to sign a waiver of liability.
         (b)   For purposes of division (C)(2) of this section, “personal
items” do not include any items that are attached to the vehicle.
      (3)   If the owner or lienholder of the motor vehicle reclaims it after a
search of the records of the Bureau of Motor Vehicles has been conducted and
after notice has been sent to the owner or lienholder as described in this
section, and the search was conducted by the place of storage, and the notice
was sent to the motor vehicle owner by the place of storage, the owner or
lienholder shall pay to the place of storage a processing fee of $25, in
addition to any expenses or charges incurred in the removal and storage of the
vehicle.
   (D)   If the owner or lienholder makes no claim to the motor vehicle within
ten days of the date of mailing of the notice, and if the vehicle is to be
disposed of at public auction as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the Sheriff or Chief of Police,
without charge to any party, shall file with the Clerk of Courts of the county
in which the place of storage is located an affidavit showing compliance with
the requirements of this section. Upon presentation of the affidavit, the
Clerk, without charge, shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances, to the Sheriff or Chief of Police. If the
vehicle is to be disposed of to a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other
facility as provided in R.C. § 4513.62 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the Sheriff or Chief of Police shall execute in triplicate
an affidavit, as prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, describing the
motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed of, and that all
requirements of this section have been complied with. The Sheriff or Chief of
Police shall retain the original of the affidavit for the Sheriff’s or Chief’s
records, and shall furnish two copies to the motor vehicle salvage dealer or
other facility. Upon presentation of a copy of the affidavit by the motor
vehicle salvage dealer, the Clerk of Courts, within 30 days of the
presentation, shall issue a salvage certificate of title, free and clear of all
liens and encumbrances.
   (E)   Whenever a motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility receives an
affidavit for the disposal of a motor vehicle as provided in this section, the
dealer or facility shall not be required to obtain an Ohio certificate of title
to the motor vehicle in the dealer’s or facility’s own name if the vehicle is
dismantled or destroyed and both copies of the affidavit are delivered to the
Clerk of Courts.
   (F)   No towing service or storage facility shall fail to comply with this
section.
(R.C. § 4513.61)  (`94 Code, § 303.08)
§ 99.03  DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE ORDERED INTO STORAGE.
   (A)   An unclaimed motor vehicle ordered into storage pursuant to §
95.01(A)(1) or §
95.02 subject to one of the following:
      (1)   The Police Chief may dispose of it with a motor vehicle salvage
dealer or scrap metal processing facility as defined in R.C. § 4737.05, or with
any other facility owned by or under contract with the municipality for the
disposal of such motor vehicles.
      (2)   The Police Chief or a licensed auctioneer may sell the motor
vehicle at public auction, after giving notice thereof by advertisement,
published once a week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county or as provided in R.C. § 7.16.
      (3)   A towing service or storage facility may obtain title to the motor
vehicle in accordance with R.C. § 4505.104.
   (B)   Any moneys accrued pursuant to division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section that are in excess of the expenses resulting from the removal and
storage of the vehicle shall be credited to the general fund of the
municipality.
(R.C. § 4513.62)
§ 99.04  DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor vehicle meeting all of
the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle is left on private property for 48 hours or longer
without the permission of the person having the right to the possession of the
property, on a public street or other property open to the public for purposes
of vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road
or highway for 48 hours or longer;
      (2)   The vehicle is three years old or older;
      (3)   The vehicle is extensively damaged, such damage including but not
limited to any of the following: missing wheels, tires, motor, or transmission;
      (4)   The vehicle is apparently inoperable; and
      (5)   The vehicle has a fair market value of $1,500 or less.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall order any abandoned junk motor vehicle to be
photographed by a law enforcement officer.  The officer shall record the make
of motor vehicle, the serial number when available, and shall also detail the
damage or missing equipment to substantiate the value of $1,500 or less.  The
Police Chief shall thereupon immediately dispose of the abandoned junk motor
vehicle to a motor vehicle salvage dealer as defined in R.C. § 4738.01 or a
scrap metal processing facility as defined in R.C. § 4737.05 which is under
contract to the municipality, or to any other facility owned by or under
contract with the municipality for the destruction of such motor vehicles.  The
records and photographs relating to the abandoned junk motor vehicle shall be
retained by the law enforcement agency ordering the disposition of such vehicle
for a period of at least two years.  The law enforcement agency shall execute
in quadruplicate an affidavit, as prescribed by the registrar of motor
vehicles, describing the motor vehicle and the manner in which it was disposed
of, and that all requirements of R.C. § 4513.63 have been complied with, and,
within 30 days of disposing of the vehicle, shall sign and file the affidavit
with the Clerk of Courts of the county in which the motor vehicle was
abandoned.  The Clerk of Courts retains the original of the affidavit for the
Clerk's files, furnishes one copy thereof to the registrar, one copy to the
motor vehicle salvage dealer or other facility handling the disposal of the
vehicle, and one copy to the law enforcement agency ordering the disposal, who
shall file such copy with the records and photograph relating to the disposal. 
Any monies arising from the disposal of an abandoned junk motor vehicle shall
be deposited in the general fund of the municipality.
   (C)   Notwithstanding §
99.02, any motor vehicle meeting the requirements of division (A)(2), (3) and
(5) of this section which has remained unclaimed by the owner or lienholder for
a period of ten days or longer following notification as provided in §
99.02 may be disposed of as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.63)
§ 99.05  ABANDONMENT OF JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall willfully leave an abandoned junk motor vehicle
as defined in § 99.04 on private property for more than 72 hours without the
permission of the person having the right to the possession of the property, or
on a public street or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or
highway for 48 hours or longer without notification to the Police Chief of the
reason for leaving the motor vehicle in such place.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, the fact that a motor vehicle has
been so left without permission or notification is prima facie evidence of
abandonment.
      (3)   Nothing contained in §§
99.01,
99.02 and
99.04 and R.C. §§ 4513.60, 4513.61 and 4513.63 shall invalidate or prevent the
enactment of further provisions of municipal ordinances regulating or
prohibiting the abandonment of motor vehicles on streets, highways, public
property, or private property within the municipality
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and
shall also be assessed any costs incurred by the municipality in disposing of
the abandoned junk motor vehicle that is the basis of the violation, less any
money accruing to the municipality from the disposal of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.64)  (`94 Code, § 303.09)
§ 99.06  JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE; ORDER TO COVER OR REMOVE; NOTICE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For purposes of this section, JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE means any motor
vehicle meeting the requirements of §
99.04(A)(2), (3), (4) and (5) that is left uncovered in the open on private
property for more than 72 hours with the permission of the person having the
right to possession of the property, except if the person is operating a junk
yard or scrap metal processing facility licensed under the authority of R.C. §§
4737.05 through 4737.12, or otherwise regulated under authority of a political
subdivision; or if the property on which the motor vehicle is left is not
subject to licensure or regulation by any governmental authority, unless the
person having the right to the possession of the property can establish that
the motor vehicle is part of a bona fide commercial operation; or if the motor
vehicle is a collector's vehicle.
      (2)   The municipality shall not prevent a person from storing or
keeping, or restrict him or her in the method of storing or keeping, any
collector's vehicle on private property with the permission of the person
having the right to the possession of the property, except that the
municipality may require a person having such permission to conceal, by means
of buildings, fences, vegetation, terrain, or other suitable obstruction, and
unlicensed collector's vehicle stored in the open.
      (3)   The Police Chief, the Legislative Authority, or the zoning
authority may send notice, by certified mail with return receipt requested, to
the person having the right to the possession of the property on which a junk
motor vehicle is left, that within ten days of receipt of the notice, the junk
motor vehicle either shall be covered by being housed in a garage or other
suitable structure, or shall be removed from the property.
      (4)   No person shall willfully leave a junk motor vehicle uncovered in
the open for more than ten days after receipt of a notice as provided in this
section.  The fact that a junk motor vehicle is so left is prima facie evidence
of willful failure to comply with the notice, and each subsequent period of 30
days that a junk motor vehicle continues to be so left constitutes a separate
offense.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.65)  (`94 Code, § 303.10)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS; TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
111.   POOL AND BILLIARD ROOMS
      
112.   PUBLIC SHOWS AND EXHIBITIONS
      
113.   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
      
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS; TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
110.01   Application of subchapter
   
110.02   Enforcement
   
110.03   Uninvited peddling and soliciting prohibited
   
110.04   Invited peddling and soliciting; registration required
   
110.05   Issuance of permit; carrying of permit; time limitations
   
110.06   Revocation of permit
Transient Merchants
   
110.20   License required
 
   
110.99   Penalty
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 110.01  APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to officers or employees
of the village, county, state or federal government, or any subdivision
thereof, when on official business; nor to any person who sells or offers to
sell agricultural products of his or her own raising or merchandise of his or
her own manufacture.
(`94 Code, § 753.05)
§ 110.02  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chief of Police and the Police Department are hereby required and
directed to suppress and abate any such nuisance as is described in §
110.03.
(`94 Code, § 753.02)
§ 110.03  UNINVITED PEDDLING AND SOLICITING PROHIBITED.
   The practice of going in and upon the private residences in the village by
canvassers, solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants and transient
vendors of merchandise and services, not having been requested or invited to do
so by the owners or occupants of such private residences, for the purpose of
soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or services or for
the purpose of disposing of or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby declared
to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
(`94 Code, § 753.01) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.04  INVITED PEDDLING AND SOLICITING; REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No canvasser, solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant or
transient vendor of merchandise or services who is invited or requested to go
in or upon a private residence in the village for the purpose of soliciting
orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or services or for the purpose
of disposing of or peddling the same, shall go in or upon such private
residence without first registering in the office of the Chief of Police and
obtaining a permit to do so from him or her.
   (B)   The registration required by division (A) hereof shall be made by
filing with the Chief of Police on forms furnished for such purposes the
following information:
      (1)   The name and home address of the applicant and his or her residence
for five years next preceding the date of application;
      (2)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods or
services offered;
      (3)   The name and address of the employer, with credentials from the
employer showing the exact relationship;
      (4)   The length of time for which the privilege to do business is
desired;
      (5)   The address of the party or parties inviting the applicant to go in
or upon their private residence; and
      (6)   Such other information concerning the applicant and his or her
business as may be reasonable and proper having regard to the nature of the
privilege desired.
(`94 Code, § 753.03) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.05  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CARRYING OF PERMIT; TIME LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Each applicant who shows evidence of good character shall be furnished
a permit upon the payment by him or her of a fee of $1, unless such applicant
is a charitable organization, in which case no fee shall be charged. The permit
shall indicate that the applicant has registered and shall also indicate the
addresses of the parties inviting him or her to go in or upon their premises.
No permittee shall go in or upon any premises not indicated on his or her
permit.
   (B)   Each permittee shall at all times while peddling or hawking in the
village incident to request or invitation carry upon his or her person his or
her permit and the same shall be exhibited by such permittee whenever he or she
is requested to do so by any police officer or by any person solicited.
(`94 Code, § 753.04)
   (C)   No activity permitted under authority of this subchapter shall
commence prior to 9:00 a.m. nor continue after 5:00 p.m. This time limitation
shall be stated on the permit.
(`94 Code, § 753.06) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.06  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Permits issued under this subchapter may be revoked by the Police
Department or the Chief of Police for the following reasons:
      (1)   Fraud or misrepresentation contained in the registration;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
conducting the activity;
      (3)   Violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or of this
Code or of any state or federal law;
      (4)   Conducting the business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner
as to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the
public;
      (5)   The permittee ceases to possess the qualifications and character
required in this subchapter for the original registration.
   (B)   The revocation of a permit shall be in addition to any penalty
provided in §
110.99 or any other penalty that may be imposed upon the permittee.
(`94 Code, § 753.07) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 110.20  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No transient alien or person who opens a store or place for the temporary
sale of goods, wares or merchandise shall, in person, by agent or otherwise,
sell or offer for sale, or solicit customers for the sale of, or take orders
for future delivery of, any goods, wares or merchandise, without first
obtaining a license therefor from the Mayor, for which the Mayor shall charge a
fee of not less than $1, nor more than $50, for each and every day, or part
thereof, used for such purposes. However, this subchapter shall not apply to
persons selling by sample or at wholesale only, or to any agricultural article
or product offered or exposed for sale by the producer or manufacturer thereof.
(`94 Code, § 769.01) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100 for each offense. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues and with respect to each person or residence solicited.
(`94 Code, §§ 753.99; 769.99)
CHAPTER 111:  POOL AND BILLIARD ROOMS
Section
   
111.01   Closing hours
   
111.02   Minors prohibited
§ 111.01  CLOSING HOURS.
   No owner, agent, employee or keeper of a pool room or billiard room in the
village, or a place of business in the village that contains a pool room or
billiard room or one or more pool tables or billiard tables, shall keep such
place open or conduct any business therein between the hours of 12:00 midnight
and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
(`94 Code, § 757.01) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.02  MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No owner, agent, employee or keeper of a pool room or billiard room in the
village, or a place of business in the village that contains a pool room or
billiard room or one or more pool tables or billiard tables, shall permit any
minor under the age of 18 years to play at the game of billiards or pool in
such place or to remain in such place.
(`94 Code, § 757.02) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 112:  PUBLIC SHOWS AND EXHIBITIONS
Section
   
112.01   License required
   
112.02   Fees; exceptions
§ 112.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall exhibit in the village any public show, performance, circus,
menagerie or other exhibition for which money or other reward is in any manner
demanded or received for admission into the same, without first obtaining a
license therefor from the Mayor.
(`94 Code, § 761.01) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.02  FEES; EXCEPTIONS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to demand and receive from the applicant for
the license required by §
112.01 such sum as he or she may deem expedient, which shall not be less than
$1, nor more than $25, for each and every day or night of such show,
performance or exhibition. However, this section shall not apply to or include
lectures or exhibitions of an historical, literary or scientific nature, or
concerts and entertainments given by, for the benefit of, or under auspices of,
any benevolent institution or the public schools or churches of the village, or
any concert, entertainment or performance given by a resident of the village.
(`94 Code, § 761.02) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 113:  VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
Section
   
113.01   VSP fee
§ 113.01  VSP FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a VSP fee that is calculated by applying a
VSP fee percentage of 3% to the video service provider's gross revenues as
defined in § 1332.32(B) of the video law. All video service providers and cable
television operators providing video service in the village shall apply the VSP
fee percentage against gross revenues as defined in the video law.
   (B)   The VSP fee shall be paid by each video service provider providing
service in the village on a quarterly basis but not sooner than 45 days nor
later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter, as set forth in R.C.
§ 1332.32(A).
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized and directed to provide any video service
provider with notice of the VSP fee percentage as determined by Council above,
which notice shall be given by certified mail, upon receipt of notice from such
video service provider, that it will begin providing video service in the
village pursuant to a state-issued video service authorization.
(Ord. 7-2009, passed 3-10-09)
CHAPTER 114:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
Regulations Governing Sexually Oriented Businesses and Employees
   
114.01   Purpose and intent
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   License required
   
114.04   Application for license
   
114.05   Issuance of a license
   
114.06   Employee license application
   
114.07   Issuance of sexually oriented business employee license
   
114.08   Expiration and renewal of license
   
114.09   Suspension
   
114.10   Revocation
   
114.11   Appeal rights
   
114.12   Transfer of license
   
114.13   Additional regulations concerning the operation of a sexually oriented
business
Regulations Governing Criminal Conduct in Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
114.20   Purpose and intent
   
114.21   Definitions
   
114.22   Unlawful activities
   
114.23   Scienter required to prove violation or business liability
 
   
114.99   Penalty
REGULATIONS GOVERNING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEES
§ 114.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting this subchapter, pursuant to R.C. § 715.55, the Village
Council, hereinafter Council, makes the following statement of intent and
findings:
      (1)   Adult entertainment establishments require special supervision from
the public safety agencies of the village in order to protect and preserve the
health, safety, morals, and welfare of the patrons and employees of the
businesses as well as the citizens of the village.
      (2)   Council finds that adult entertainment establishments are
frequently used for unlawful sexual activities, including prostitution and
sexual liaisons of a casual nature.
      (3)   The concern over sexually transmitted diseases is a legitimate
health concern of Council that demands reasonable regulation of adult
entertainment establishments by Council in the specified manner, and expanded
authority for reasonable regulation of adult entertainment establishments by
local governments, in order to protect the health and well-being of the
citizens.
      (4)   Minimal regulations enacted by Council are a legitimate and
reasonable means of accountability to ensure that operators of adult
entertainment establishments comply with reasonable regulations and to ensure
that operators do not knowingly allow their establishments to be used as places
of illegal sexual activity or solicitation.
      (5)   There is convincing documented evidence that adult entertainment
establishments, because of their very nature, have a deleterious effect on both
the existing businesses around them and the surrounding residential areas
adjacent to them, cause increased crime, particularly in the overnight hours,
and downgrade property values.
      (6)   Council desires to minimize and control these adverse effects by
regulating adult entertainment establishments in the specified manner. And by
minimizing and controlling these adverse effects, Council seeks to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizenry; protect the citizens from
increased crime; preserve the quality of life; preserve the property values and
character of surrounding neighborhoods; and deter the spread of urban blight.
      (7)   Council has determined that current local zoning and other
locational criteria do not adequately protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of the village and that expanded regulation of adult
entertainment establishments is necessary.
      (8)   It is not the intent of Council in enacting this act to suppress or
authorize the suppression of any speech activities protected by the First
Amendment, but to enact content-neutral statutes that address the secondary
effects of adult entertainment establishments.
      (9)   It is not the intent of Council to condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene material, and Council recognizes that state and federal
law prohibits the distribution of obscene materials and expects and encourages
state law enforcement officials to enforce state obscenity statutes against any
such illegal activities in this state.
   (B)   It is the intent of Council in enacting this subchapter to regulate in
the specified manner adult entertainment establishments in order to promote the
health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the village and
establish reasonable regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects
of adult entertainment establishments within the village. The provisions of
this subchapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent of Council in enacting this
subchapter to restrict or deny, or authorize the restriction or denial of,
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny, or authorize the denial of, access by the distributors
and exhibitors of adult entertainment and adult materials to their intended
market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of Council in enacting this
subchapter to condone or legitimize the distribution or exhibition of obscene
material.
   (C)   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult
uses on communities presented in hearings and in reports made available to the
legislature and subsequently adopted by the Ohio General Assembly as findings
under Section 3 of House Bill 23 (and on findings incorporated in the cases of
Township of Littleton, Colorado v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C. (2004), 541 U.S. 774;
Township of Erie v. Pap's A.M. (2000), 529 U.S. 277; Barnes v. Glen Theatre,
Inc. (1991), 501 U.S. 560; Township of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc.
(1986), 475 U.S. 41; Young v. American Mini Theatres (1976), 426 U.S. 50;
California v. LaRue (1972), 409 U.S. 109; DLS, Inc. v. Township of Chattanooga
(6th Cir. 1997), 107 F.3d 403; East Brooks Books, Inc. v. Township of Memphis
(6th Cir. 1995), 48 F.3d 220; Harris v. Fitchville Township Trustees (N.D. Ohio
2000), 99 F. Supp.2d 837; Bamon Corp. v. Township of Dayton (S.D. Ohio 1990),
730 F. Supp. 90, aff'd (6th Cir. 1991), 923 F.2d 470; Broadway Books v. Roberts
(E.D. Tenn. 1986), 642 F. Supp. 486; Bright Lights, Inc. v. Township of Newport
(E.D. Ky. 1993), 830 F. Supp. 378; Richland Bookmart v. Nichols (6th Cir.
1998), 137 F.3d 435; Deja Vu v. Metro Government (6th Cir. 1999), 1999 U.S.
App. LEXIS 535; Threesome Entertainment v. Strittmather (N.D. Ohio 1998), 4
F.Supp.2d 710; J.L. Spoons, Inc. v. Township of Brunswick (N.D. Ohio 1999), 49
F. Supp.2d 1032; Triplett Grille, Inc. v. Township of Akron (6th Cir. 1994), 40
F.3d 129; Nightclubs, Inc. v. Township of Paducah (6th Cir. 2000), 202 F.3d
884; O'Connor v. Township and County of Denver (10th Cir. 1990), 894 F.2d 1210;
Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., et al. v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville and
Davidson County (6th Cir. 2001), 2001 U.S. App. LEXIS 26007; State of Ohio ex
rel. Rothal v. Smith (Ohio C.P. 2002), Summit C.P. No. CV 01094594; Z.J. Gifts
D-2, L.L.C. v. Township of Aurora (10th Cir. 1998), 136 F.3d 683; Connection
Distrib. Co. v. Reno (6th Cir. 1998), 154 F.3d 281; Sundance Assocs. v. Reno
(10th Cir. 1998), 139 F.3d 804; American Library Association v. Reno (D.C. Cir.
1994), 33 F.3d 78; American Target Advertising, Inc. v. Giani (10th Cir. 2000),
199 F.3d 1241; and other cases and on reports of secondary effects occurring in
and around adult entertainment establishments in Phoenix, Arizona (1984);
Minneapolis, Minnesota (1980); Houston, Texas (1983); Indianapolis, Indiana
(1984); Amarillo, Texas (1977); Garden Grove, California (1991); Los Angeles,
California (1977); Whittier, California (1978); Austin, Texas (1986); Seattle,
Washington (1989); Oklahoma Township, Oklahoma (1986); Cleveland, Ohio (1977);
Dallas, Texas (1997); St. Croix County, Wisconsin (1993); Bellevue, Washington
(1998); Newport News, Virginia (1996); Tucson, Arizona (1990); St. Paul,
Minnesota (1988); Oklahoma Township, Oklahoma (1986 and 1992); Beaumont, Texas
(1982); New York, New York (1994); Ellicottville, New York (1998); Des Moines,
Iowa (1984); Islip, New York (1980); Adams County, Colorado (1987); Manatee
County, Florida (1987); New Hanover County, North Carolina (1989); Las Vegas,
Nevada (1978); Cattaraugas County, New York (1998); Cleburne, Texas (1997);
Dallas, Texas (1997); El Paso, Texas (1986); New York Times Square study
(1994); Report to ACLJ on the Secondary Impacts of Sex Oriented Businesses
(1996); findings from the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group On The
Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota);
and on testimony to Congress in 136 Cong. Rec. S. 8987; 135 Cong. Rec. S.
14519; 135 Cong. Rec. S. 5636, 134 Cong. Rec. E. 3750; and also on findings
from the paper entitled "Stripclubs According to Strippers: Exposing Workplace
Sexual Violence," by Kelly Holsopple, Program Director, Freedom and Justice
Center for Prostitution Resources, Minneapolis, Minnesota; and from "Sexually
Oriented Businesses: An Insider's View," by David Sherman, presented to the
Michigan House Committee on Ethics and Constitutional Law, Jan. 12, 2000; and
from various other police reports, testimony, newspaper reports, and other
documentary evidence, and subsequent findings in Sensations, Inc. v. City of
Grand Rapids, Michigan Decency Action Council (6th Cir. 2008), 526 F.3d 291;
729, Inc. v. Kenton County Fiscal Court (6th Cir. 2008), 515 F.3d 485; and
Andy's Rest. & Lounge, Inc. v. City of Gary (7th Cir. 2006), 466 F.3d 550, and
Council's independent review of the same, Council finds:
      (1)   Adult entertainment establishments lend themselves to ancillary
unlawful and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the
operators of the establishments.
      (2)   Certain employees of adult entertainment establishments, as defined
in this subchapter as adult theaters and cabarets, engage in a higher incidence
of certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other
establishments.
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation and oral and anal sex, occur at
adult entertainment establishments, especially those that provide private or
semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows.
The "couch dances" or "lap dances" that frequently occur in adult entertainment
establishments featuring live nude or seminude dancers constitute or may
constitute the offense of "engaging in prostitution" under R.C. § 2907.25.
      (4)   Offering and providing private or semi-private booths or cubicles
encourages such activities, which creates unhealthy conditions.
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
adult entertainment establishments for the purpose of engaging in sexual
activity within the premises of those adult entertainment establishments.
      (6)   Numerous communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis, salmonella, campylobacter and shigella infections,
chlamydial, myoplasmal and ureoplasmal infections, trichomoniasis, and
chancroid.
      (7)   Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS caused by the human
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United States: 600 in 1982, 2,200 in 1983,
4,600 in 1984, 8,555 in 1985, and 253,448 through December 31, 1992.
      (8)   A total of 10,255 AIDS cases had been reported in Ohio as of
January 1999. Ohio has required HIV case reporting since 1990, and the reported
information shows 7,969 people living with (HIV) (4,213) and (AIDS) (3,756) in
the state.
      (9)   Since 1981 and to the present, there have been an increasing
cumulative number of persons testing positive for the HIV antibody test in
Ohio.
      (10)   The number of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis in the
Unites States reported annually has risen. 33,613 cases were reported in 1982,
and 45,200 cases were reported through November 1990.
      (11)   The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported
annually remains at a high level, with over one-half million cases being
reported in 1990.
      (12)   The Surgeon General of the United States, in his report of October
22, 1986, has advised the American public that AIDS and HIV infection may be
transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse, and exposure to
infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her
newborn.
      (13)   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
      (14)   Sanitary conditions in some adult entertainment establishments are
unhealthy, in part because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
      (15)   The findings noted in divisions (C)(1) to (14) of this section
raise substantial governmental concerns.
      (16)   Adult entertainment establishments have operational
characteristics that require or mandate subject them to reasonable government
regulation in order to protect those substantial governmental concerns.
      (17)   The enactment of this subchapter will promote the general welfare,
health, morals, and safety of the citizens of this village.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter:
      (1)   "Adult bookstore," "adult cabaret," "adult motion picture theater,"
"adult video store," "characterized by," "nude," "nudity," "state of nudity,"
"seminude," "state of seminudity," "sexual device," "sexual device shop,"
"sexual encounter center," "specified anatomical areas," and "specified sexual
activity" have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2907.40; and
      (2)   "Adult arcade," "adult entertainment," "adult entertainment
establishment," "adult novelty store," "adult theater," "distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon," "nude or seminude model studio "
"regularly features," "regularly shown," and "sexual encounter establishment"
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYEE.   Any individual on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY.   A person's spouse residing in the person's household,
parents, siblings of the whole or of the half blood, and children, including
adopted children.
      LICENSE.   A license to act or operate a sexually oriented business,
issued pursuant to this subchapter.
      LICENSEE.   A person in whose name a license to operate has been issued,
as well as the individual(s) designated on the license application as
principally responsible for the operation of the sexually oriented business.
With respect to an employee license issued under this subchapter, LICENSEE
means an employee as defined in this division, in whose name a license has been
issued authorizing employment at sexually oriented business.
      OPERATE.   To control or hold primary responsibility for the operation of
a sexually oriented business, either as a business entity, as an individual, or
as part of a group of individuals with shared responsibility. OPERATE or CAUSE
TO BE OPERATED shall mean to cause to function or to put or keep in operation.
      OPERATOR.   Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises. A person may be found to be
operating or causing to be operated a sexually oriented business whether or not
that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.
      PATRON.   Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business,
except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee's or volunteer's
duties as a public employee or volunteer's duties as a public employee or
volunteer.
      PERSON.   An individual, proprietorship, partnership, firm, association,
joint stock company, corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form
or character.
      PREMISES.   The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not limited,
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.   An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
cabaret, adult entertainment establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult
novelty store, adult theater, adult video store, sexual device shop, sexual
encounter center, and sexual encounter establishment as defined by division (A)
of this section, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.   Any of the following offenses:
         (a)   Prostitution or promoting prostitution; soliciting; loitering to
engage in solicitation; sexual performance by a child; public lewdness;
indecent exposure; indecency with a child; sexual assault; molestation of a
child; or any similar offenses to those described above under the criminal or
penal code of any local jurisdiction, state, or country;
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; or
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense.
         (c)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall not prevent
such conviction from constituting a specified criminal activity as defined in
this section.
      TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL  OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  
Shall mean any of the following:
         (a)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
         (b)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling
interest in the business whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
         (c)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal
device which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.03  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall;
      (1)   Operate a sexually oriented business as defined in §
114.02 without a valid sexually oriented business license issued by the village
pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   In connection with operating a sexually oriented business, retain
the services of a person as an employee, as defined in this subchapter, who is
not licensed as a sexually oriented business employee by the village pursuant
to this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who violates division (A)(1) above shall be guilty of a
third degree misdemeanor for a first offense, and a second degree misdemeanor
for a second offense.
   (C)   A violation of division (A)(2) above shall be a ground for the
suspension of a sexually oriented business license as provided for in §
114.09.
   (D)   No person shall act as an employee, as defined in this subchapter, on
the premises of a sexually oriented business, without having secured a sexually
oriented business employee license ("employee license") pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (E)   A violation of this section shall be a ground for the suspension of a
sexually oriented business employee license as provided for in §
114.09.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.04  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   An original or renewal application for a sexually oriented business
license shall be submitted to Council or its designee on a form provided by
Council. Council's application may require and the applicant shall provide such
information as reasonably necessary (including fingerprints) to enable Council
or its designee to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established in this subchapter.
   (B)   A filing fee of $100 shall be paid at the time of filing the
application.
   (C)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall identify
and be signed by the following persons:
      (1)   If the business entity is owned by an individual, that individual.
      (2)   If the business entity is owned by a corporation, each officer or
director of the corporation, any individual owning or controlling more than 50%
of the voting shares of the corporation, and any person with an ownership
interest in the corporation who will be principally responsible for the
operation of the proposed sexually oriented business.
      (3)   If the business entity is owned by a partnership (general or
limited), a joint venture, or any other type of organization where two or more
persons share in the profits and liabilities of the organization, each partner
(other than limited partners); and any other person entitled to share in the
profits of the organization, whether or not such person is also obligated to
share in the liabilities of the organization, who will be principally
responsible for the operation of the proposed sexually oriented business.
   (D)   An application for a sexually oriented business license must designate
one or more individuals who are to be principally responsible for the operation
of the proposed sexually oriented business, if a license is granted. At least
one person so designated must be involved in the day-to-day operation of the
proposed sexually oriented business on a regular basis. Each person so
designated, as well as the business entity itself, shall be considered a
license applicant, must qualify as a licensee under this subchapter, and shall
be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
completed according to the instructions on the application form, which shall
require the following:
      (1)   If the applicant is:
         (a)   An individual, state the legal name and any aliases of such
individual; or
         (b)   A partnership, state the complete name of the partnership and
all of its partners and whether the partnership is general or limited, and
provide a copy of the partnership agreement, if any; or
         (c)   A joint venture, or any other type of organization where two or
more persons share in the profits and liabilities of the organization, state
the complete name of the organization and provide a copy of the legal document
establishing the organization, if any; or
         (d)   A corporation, state the complete name of the corporation and
the date of its incorporation, provide evidence that the corporation is in good
standing under the laws of its state of incorporation, and state the names and
capacities of all officers and directors, the name of the registered corporate
agent, and the address of the registered office for service of process.
      (2)   If the applicant intends to operate the sexually oriented business
under a name other than that of the applicant, state the fictitious name to be
used and submit copies of documentation evidencing the registration of the
business name under applicable laws.
      (3)   State whether any applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this subchapter, and if so, the specified
criminal activity involved and the date, place, and jurisdiction of each such
conviction.
      (4)   State whether any applicant has had a previous license under this
subchapter or other similar regulation of another jurisdiction denied,
suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the sexually oriented
business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked, as well as the
date of the denial, suspension or revocation; and state whether the applicant
has been a partner in a partnership or an officer, or 50% or greater owner of a
corporation licensed under this subchapter whose license has previously been
denied, suspended or revoked, including the name and location of the business
for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked as well as the date of
denial, suspension or revocation.
      (5)   State whether any applicant holds any other licenses under this
subchapter or other similar regulation from this or another jurisdiction and,
if so, the names and locations of such other licensed businesses.
      (6)   State the location of the proposed sexually oriented business,
including a legal description of the property (i.e., permanent parcel number),
street address, and telephone numbers), if any.
      (7)   State the mailing address and residential address of each applicant
and each person signing the application.
      (8)   Submit a recent photograph of each applicant who is a natural
person, taken by a village police officer that clearly shows the applicant's
face.
      (9)   Submit the fingerprints of each applicant who is a natural person,
recorded by the Richland/Huron County Sheriff's Office.
      (10)   For any applicant who is a natural person, describe and identify
the location of any tattoos on such person's face, arms, legs, or hands, or any
other anatomical area that normally would be visible when such person is on the
premises of the proposed sexually oriented business.
      (11)   State the driver's license number and social security number of
each applicant who is a natural person and each person signing the application,
or, for an applicant that is not a natural person, the applicant's federally
issued tax identification number.
      (12)   Submit proof that each applicant who is a natural person is at
least 18 years old.
      (13)   Submit a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the
premises of the sexually oriented business. The diagram shall also designate
the place at which the adult business license will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must
be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior
of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
      (14)   The above-required disclosures facilitate the police investigation
into the applicant's criminal background regarding crimes of a sexual nature so
that Council can determine whether the subchapter's civil disabilities
provisions apply. Such provisions exist to combat the sex crimes connected with
sexually oriented establishments by temporarily prohibiting those recently
convicted of such crimes from employment with those establishments. In
addition, the required disclosures ensure continuing compliance with the
subchapter's licensing and permitting requirements.
      (15)   The information gathered pursuant to the above provisions
constitute protected private information and are exempt from Ohio's Public
Records Act in accordance with the decision of the Sixth Circuit Court of
Appeals in DejaVu of Cincinnati v. Union Township (6th Cir. 2005), 411 F.3d
777.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.05  ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a sexually oriented business
license, Council or its designee shall promptly request that the Richland/Huron
County Sheriff's Department review the information provided in the application
concerning the criminal background of the applicant(s) and that the Richland/
Huron County Sheriff's Department shall transmit the results of its
investigation in writing to Council or its designee within five days of the
completion of its investigation.
   (B)   Within five days of receipt of an application for a sexually oriented
business, Council or its designee shall notify the Fire Chief and the Richland
County Health Commissioner of such application. In making such notification,
Council or its designee shall request that the Fire Chief and Health
Commissioner promptly inspect the premises for which the sexually oriented
business license is sought to assess compliance with the regulations under
their respective jurisdictions.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall provide to Council or its designee a written
certification of whether the premises are in compliance with the village fire
regulations within ten days of receipt of notice of the application.
   (D)   Council or its designee shall commence the inspection of the premises
for which a sexually oriented business license is sought promptly upon receipt
of the application, and shall complete, within ten days after receipt of the
application, a written certification of whether the premises are in compliance
with the Village Zoning Ordinance, the Village Property Maintenance Code, and
the provisions of this subchapter related to physical characteristics of the
premises, and whether Council has received notice from any state or county
agency of the premises being in violation of any applicable state building or
property codes.
   (E)   Within 21 days after receipt of a completed sexually oriented business
license application, Council or its designee shall approve or deny the issuance
of a license. Council or its designee shall approve the issuance of a license
to an applicant unless he or she determines that one or more of the following
findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant who is a natural person is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant has failed to provide all information and documents
required for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or
has provided information or documents as requested on the application that are
insufficient on their face; provided, however, that no license shall be denied
solely on the ground that an applicant has refused to disclose its social
security number in accordance with the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974,
Pub. L. No. 93-579, § 7(a)(1).
      (3)   An applicant has, within the preceding 12 months, been denied a
sexually oriented business license by any jurisdiction or has had a license to
operate a sexually oriented business revoked by any jurisdiction.
      (4)   An applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity as
defined in this subchapter.
      (5)   The proposed sexually oriented business would violate or fail to be
in compliance with any provisions of this subchapter, the Zoning Ordinance, the
Property Maintenance Code, or state statute or regulation.
      (6)   The application and investigation fee required by this subchapter
has not been paid.
      (7)   An applicant is in violation of or not in compliance with any
provision of this subchapter, except as provided in division (F) of this
section.
   (F)   If Council or its designee determines that one or both of the
following findings is true, the license issued pursuant to this section shall
contain a requirement that the licensee correct all deficiencies specified
within 120 days of the date the license is issued:
      (1)   The results of inspections of the premises by the Fire Chief or its
designee or the Health Commissioner or its designee indicate that the premises
are not in compliance with applicable laws and regulations under their
respective jurisdictions.
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him or her in relation to
any business, which are not the subject of a pending appeal or other legal
challenge.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business license shall state on its face the name
of the applicant, the expiration date, and the address of the licensed sexually
oriented business. All sexually oriented business licenses shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the business so that they may be
easily read at any time.
   (H)   Council or its designee shall advise the applicant in writing within
three days of Council's decision of the reasons for any license denial. If
Council finds, subsequent to denial, that the basis for the denial of the
license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may reapply.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.06  EMPLOYEE LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for an employee license shall be submitted to Council
or its designee on a form provided by Council. The application may request, and
the applicant shall provide, such information as reasonably necessary
(including fingerprints) to enable Council to determine whether the applicant
meets the qualifications established in this subchapter.
   (B)   An application for an employee license shall be completed according to
the instructions of the application form, which shall require the following:
      (1)   State the applicant's name and any other names (including "stage"
names) or aliases used by the applicant.
      (2)   State the applicant's date and place of birth.
      (3)   State the applicant's height, weight, and hair and eye color.
      (4)   Submit a recent photograph of the applicant, taken by a village
police officer which clearly shows the applicant's face.
      (5)   Submit the applicant's fingerprints, recorded by the Richland/Huron
County Sheriff's Office.
      (6)   Describe and identify the location of any tattoos on the
applicant's face, arms, legs, or hands, or any other anatomical area that
normally would be visible when the applicant is on the premises of the proposed
sexually oriented business.
      (7)   State the applicant's present residence address and telephone
number.
      (8)   State the applicant's present or intended business address and
telephone number.
      (9)   State the applicant's driver's license number and social security
number.
      (10)   Submit proof that the applicant is at least 18 years old.
      (11)   Provide a statement detailing the sexually oriented business-
related license history of the applicant for the five years immediately
preceding the date of the filing of the application, including whether such
applicant previously operated or is seeking to operate a sexually oriented
business, in this or any other jurisdiction, and whether the applicant has ever
had a sexually oriented business-related license, permit, or authorization to
do business denied, revoked, or suspended. In the event of any such denial,
revocation, or suspension, state the name of the issuing or denying
jurisdiction and describe in full the reason for the denial, revocation, or
suspension. Attach a copy of any order of denial, revocation, or suspension.
      (12)   State whether the applicant has been convicted of a specified
criminal activity as defined in this subchapter and, if so, the specified
criminal activity involved and the date, place and jurisdiction of each such
conviction.
      (13)   The above-required disclosures facilitate the police investigation
into the applicant's criminal background regarding crimes of a sexual nature so
that Council can determine whether the subchapter's civil disabilities
provisions apply. Such provisions exist to combat the sex crimes connected with
sexually oriented establishments by temporarily prohibiting those recently
convicted of such crimes from employment with those establishments. In
addition, the required disclosures ensure continuing compliance with the
subchapter's licensing and permitting requirements.
      (14)   The information gathered pursuant to the above provisions
constitutes protected private information and is exempt from Ohio's Public
Records Act in accordance with the decision of the Sixth Circuit Court of
Appeals in DejaVu of Cincinnati v. Union Township (6th Cir. 2005), 411 F.3d
777.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.07  ISSUANCE OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS EMPLOYEE LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the filing of a completed application for an employee license,
Council or its designee shall issue a license to said applicant immediately.
   (B)   Within five days of receipt of a completed application for an employee
license, Council or its designee shall request that the Richland/Huron County
Sheriff's Department initiate an investigation of the information provided in
the application concerning the criminal background of the applicant. The
Richland/Huron County Sheriff's Department shall document the results of its
investigation in writing within five days of the completion of its
investigation and transmit this writing to Council or its designee.
   (C)   Within ten days after completion of the criminal background
investigation of the applicant, Council or its designee shall either affirm the
prior issuance of the license or revoke the license. Council or its designee
shall affirm the prior issuance of a license to an applicant unless he or she
determines that one or more of the following findings are true:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to provide all information and documents
required for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or
has provided information or documents as requested on the application that are
insufficient on their face; provided, however, that no license shall be denied
solely on the ground that an applicant has refused to disclose its social
security number in accordance with the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974,
Pub. L. No. 93-579, § 7(a)(1).
      (2)   The applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of a specified criminal activity
as defined in this subchapter.
      (4)   The employee license is to be used for employment in a business
prohibited by local, state, or federal law, statute, rule or regulation.
      (5)   The applicant has, within the preceding 12 months, been denied an
employee license by any jurisdiction or has had an employee license revoked by
any jurisdiction.
   (D)   If the employee license is revoked, Council or its designee shall
advise the applicant in writing within three days of the reason(s) for any such
revocation.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.08  EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire one year
from the date of issuance and may be renewed by making application as provided
in this section. Application for renewal shall be made no more than 90 days and
no less than 21 days before the expiration date. If application is made less
than 21 days before the expiration date, the license will not be extended
pending a decision on the application, but will expire on its normal expiration
date.
   (B)   An application for renewal of a sexually oriented business license
shall be submitted to Council or its designee on a form provided by the
village. The completed renewal application shall describe any changes or
additions to, or deletions from, the information provided in the applicant's
initial license application pursuant to this subchapter. Copies of any document
or material submitted in connection with the initial license application shall
accompany the completed renewal application that has been revised or such
application shall be revised to reflect any change in circumstances or
conditions. Sketches or diagrams submitted with an initial sexually oriented
business license application may be resubmitted with subsequent renewal
applications, provided that the applicant certifies in writing that the sketch
or diagram still depicts the premises accurately.
   (C)   Council or its designee shall make determinations concerning the
approval of license renewals based on the same criteria and time mandates used
to evaluate applications for new licenses under this subchapter.
   (D)   Council or its designee shall advise the applicant in writing within
three days of the reason(s) for any denial of a license renewal.
   (E)   An application for renewal of an employee license shall be submitted
to Council or its designee on a form provided by the village. The completed
renewal application shall describe any changes or additions to, or deletions
from, the information provided in the applicant's initial license application
pursuant to this subchapter. Copies of any document or material submitted in
connection with the initial license application shall accompany the completed
renewal application that has been revised or requires revision to reflect any
change in circumstances or conditions.
   (F)   When Council denies an application for renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued another license for one year from the date of
denial. However, if Council finds, subsequent to denial, that the basis for the
denial of the renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may
reapply prior to the expiration of the one-year period.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.09  SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Council shall suspend a sexually oriented business license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee:
      (1)   Has violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
subchapter; or
      (2)   Has knowingly allowed an employee to violate or fail to comply with
any section of this subchapter.
   (B)   Council shall suspend a sexually oriented business license for a
period not to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or its employee
or agent has refused to allow, or has prohibited or has interfered with, an
inspection of the licensed sexually oriented business premises as authorized by
§
114.05(B) and (C) or any other reasonable inspection.
   (C)   Council shall suspend an employee license for a period not to exceed
30 days if it determines that a licensee has violated or is not in compliance
with any section of this subchapter.
   (D)   Council or its designee shall advise the licensee in writing within
three days of the reason(s) for any suspension.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.10  REVOCATION.
   (A)   Council shall revoke a sexually oriented business license or employee
license if a cause of suspension under this subchapter occurs and the license
has been suspended two times within the preceding 12 months.
   (B)   Council shall revoke a sexually oriented business license if it
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee failed to provide all information and documents required
for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or provided
information or documents as requested on the application that are false;
      (2)   The licensee(s) failed to comply with any requirement stated in the
license, pursuant to this, to correct specified deficiencies within 120 days;
      (3)   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of
controlled substances on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution, solicitation, or the
commission of a felony on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee knowingly operated the sexually oriented business during
a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (6)   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of specified sexual
activity, as defined in this subchapter, to occur in or on the licensed
premises;
      (7)   A licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal activity, as
defined in this subchapter,  during the term of the license; or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, county, or
state for any taxes or fees that were assessed or imposed in relation to any
business.
   (C)   Council shall revoke an employee license if it determines that:
      (1)   The licensee failed to provide all information and documents
required for issuance of the license as requested on the application form, or
provided information or documents as requested on the application that are
false;
      (2)   The licensee has knowingly acted as an employee on the premises of
a sexually oriented business during a period of time when the licensee's
license was suspended; or
      (3)   The licensee has been convicted of a specified criminal activity,
as defined in this subchapter during the term of the license.
   (D)   Council or its designee shall advise the licensee in writing within
three days of the reason(s) for any revocation.
   (E)   When Council revokes a license pursuant to divisions (A), (B)(3)
through (7), (C)(2) or (3) above, the licensee shall not be issued another
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
   (F)   When Council revokes a license pursuant to divisions (B)(1), (B)(8) or
(C)(1) above, the applicant may be granted a license if the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated and at least 30 days have elapsed since
the date the revocation became effective.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.11  APPEAL RIGHTS.
   (A)   In the event that Council denies, suspends, or revokes a new or
renewal license under this subchapter, or any action taken on an appeal that is
provided by this subchapter, the applicant may pursue an appeal to Richland
County Court of Common Pleas pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2506. The failure of
Council to render a decision on the application within the time prescribed in §
114.09(A) shall be considered an affirmance of the denial, suspension, or
revocation of the license and the applicant may pursue an appeal to Richland
County Court of Common Pleas pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2506. This appeal
provision is intended to comply with the requirement for prompt judicial review
stated by the United States Supreme Court in Township of Littleton, Colorado v.
Z. J. Gifts D-4 (2004), 541 U.S. 774.
   (B)   Any licensee lawfully operating a sexually oriented business prior to
the denial of a license renewal application, or the suspension or revocation of
a license, shall retain said license and all privileges attendant thereto,
subject to all other terms of this subchapter, so that the status quo of the
licensee is maintained during the pendency of an appeal of a decision rendered
under this subchapter and during the entire time required for the court to rule
on the appeal pursuant to division (A) above.
   (C)   Any licensee lawfully acting as an employee in a sexually oriented
business prior to the denial of a license renewal application, or the
suspension or revocation of a license, shall retain said license and all
privileges attendant thereto, subject to all other terms of this subchapter, so
that the status quo of the licensee is maintained during the pendency of an
appeal of a decision rendered under this subchapter and during the entire time
required for the court to rule on the appeal pursuant to division (A) above.
   (D)   In the event that any judicial review of the denial of a new or
renewal license application or the revocation or suspension of a license is
still pending 30 days before the expiration date of any license, the licensee
may file a renewal license application with Council or its designee pursuant to
this subchapter. In the event that an application for renewal of a license is
denied and the applicant seeks judicial review of that denial, Council has the
right to consolidate such review with any pending judicial actions in regards
to the previous denial, suspension or revocation of a license.
   (E)   If, during the pendency of any appeal pursued under division (A)
above, there are additional denials of a renewal license application or
suspensions or revocations of that license, Council has the right to
consolidate the appeal pursued under division (A) above for the additional
denials, suspensions or revocations with any pending appeal for that same
licensee.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.12  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business license is not transferable from one
licensee to another or from one location to another. Any purported transfer of
a sexually oriented business license shall automatically and immediately revoke
that license.
   (B)   An employee license is not transferable from one licensee to another,
but the use of the license by the individual to whom it was issued may be
transferred from one licensed sexually oriented business to another such
licensed establishment during the term of the license, provided that the
licensee gives written notice of such transfer to Council or its designee
within 15 days of such transfer.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.13  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING THE OPERATION OF A SEXUALLY
ORIENTED BUSINESS.
   (A)   Sexual activity, live entertainment and performances.
      (1)   No person shall, in a sexually oriented business, appear before a
patron or patrons in a state of nudity, regardless of whether such public
nudity is expressive in nature.
      (2)   Any employee appearing on the premises of a sexually oriented
business in a state of seminudity, as defined by this subchapter, must be on a
stage that is at least 20 inches from the floor, and at a distance at least 30
inches from all parts of a clearly designated area in which patrons will be
present.
      (3)   All live entertainment and performances in a sexually oriented
business must take place on a stage that is at least 20 inches from the floor
and a distance of at least 30 inches from all parts of a clearly designated
area in which patrons will be present.
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room, but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. If the
premises has two or more operator's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the operator's stations. It is the duty of the
operator to ensure that at least one employee is on duty and situated in an
operator's station at all times that any patron is on the portion of the
premises monitored by the operator station. It shall be the duty of the
operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees present on the
premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this division remains
unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the
premises.
      (5)   No employee shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually
oriented business, appear within view of any patron in a nude or seminude
condition unless the employee, while nude or seminude, shall be and remain at
least five feet from all patrons.
      (6)   Employees in a sexually oriented business shall maintain a minimum
distance of five feet from areas on the business premises occupied by patrons
for a minimum of 60 minutes after the employee appears in a nude or seminude
condition within view of any patron. This regulation is not intended to
prohibit ingress or egress from the premises. It is intended to control illicit
sexual contact and reduce the incidents of prostitution occurring in the
establishments.
      (7)   No patron who is not a member of the employee's immediate family
shall knowingly touch an employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (8)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly
touch a patron who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or
another employee who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or the
clothing of a patron who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or
another employee who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or
allow the patron who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or
another employee who is not a member of the employee's immediate family to
touch the employee or the clothing of the employee.
      (9)   The provisions of divisions (A)(1) through (8) shall not apply to
an employee's use of any restroom or any single-sex dressing room that is
accessible only to employees.
      (10)   In addition, divisions (A)(1) through (8) shall not apply to live
performances in which the patron and employee are separated by an impenetrable
barrier such as, but not limited too, glass or plexiglas.
   (B)   Minors prohibited.  No person under the age of 18 years shall be
permitted on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (C)   Hours of operation.  No sexually oriented business shall be or remain
open for business between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that
a sexually oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4303 may remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does
not conduct, offer, or allow sexually oriented business activity in which the
performers appear nude.
(Ord. 12-2010, passed 6-8-10)
REGULATIONS GOVERNING CRIMINAL CONDUCT IN SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
§ 114.20  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting this subchapter, pursuant to R.C. § 715.55, the Village
Council, hereinafter Council, makes the following statement of intent and
findings:
      (1)   Adult entertainment establishments require special supervision from
the public safety agencies of the village in order to protect and preserve the
health, safety, morals, and welfare of the patrons and employees of the
businesses as well as the citizens of the village.
      (2)   Council finds that adult entertainment establishments are
frequently used for unlawful sexual activities, including prostitution and
sexual liaisons of a casual nature.
      (3)   The concern over sexually transmitted diseases is a legitimate
health concern of Council that demands reasonable regulation of adult
entertainment establishments by Council in the specified manner, and expanded
authority for reasonable regulation of adult entertainment establishments by
local governments, in order to protect the health and well-being of the
citizens.
      (4)   Minimal regulations enacted by Council are a legitimate and
reasonable means of accountability to ensure that operators of adult
entertainment establishments comply with reasonable regulations and to ensure
that operators do not knowingly allow their establishments to be used as places
of illegal sexual activity or solicitation.
      (5)   There is convincing documented evidence that adult entertainment
establishments, because of their very nature, have a deleterious effect on both
the existing businesses around them and the surrounding residential areas
adjacent to them, cause increased crime, particularly in the overnight hours,
and downgrade property values.
      (6)   Council desires to minimize and control these adverse effects by
regulating adult entertainment establishments in the specified manner. And by
minimizing and controlling these adverse effects, Council seeks to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizenry; protect the citizens from
increased crime; preserve the quality of life; preserve the property values and
character of surrounding neighborhoods; and deter the spread of urban blight.
      (7)   Council has determined that current local zoning and other
locational criteria do not adequately protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of the village and that expanded regulation of adult
entertainment establishments is necessary.
      (8)   It is not the intent of Council in enacting this act to suppress or
authorize the suppression of any speech activities protected by the First
Amendment, but to enact content-neutral statutes that address the secondary
effects of adult entertainment establishments.
      (9)   It is not the intent of Council to condone or legitimize the
distribution of obscene material, and Council recognizes that state and federal
law prohibits the distribution of obscene materials and expects and encourages
state law enforcement officials to enforce state obscenity statutes against any
such illegal activities in this state.
   (B)   It is the intent of Council in enacting this subchapter to regulate in
the specified manner adult entertainment establishments in order to promote the
health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of the village and
establish reasonable regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects
of adult entertainment establishments within the village. The provisions of
this subchapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually
oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent of Council in enacting this
subchapter to restrict or deny, or authorize the restriction or denial of,
access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny, or authorize the denial of, access by the distributors
and exhibitors of adult entertainment and adult materials to their intended
market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of Council in enacting this
subchapter to condone or legitimize the distribution or exhibition of obscene
material.
   (C)   Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of adult
uses on communities presented in hearings and in reports made available to the
legislature and subsequently adopted by the Ohio General Assembly as findings
under Section 3 of House Bill 23 (and on findings incorporated in the cases of
Township of Littleton, Colorado v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C. (2004), 541 U.S. 774;
Township of Erie v. Pap's A.M. (2000), 529 U.S. 277; Barnes v. Glen Theatre,
Inc. (1991), 501 U.S. 560; Township of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc.
(1986), 475 U.S. 41; Young v. American Mini Theatres (1976), 426 U.S. 50;
California v. LaRue (1972), 409 U.S. 109; DLS, Inc. v. Township of Chattanooga
(6th Cir. 1997), 107 F.3d 403; East Brooks Books, Inc. v. Township of Memphis
(6th Cir. 1995), 48 F.3d 220; Harris v. Fitchville Township Trustees (N.D. Ohio
2000), 99 F. Supp.2d 837; Bamon Corp. v. Township of Dayton (S.D. Ohio 1990),
730 F. Supp. 90, aff'd (6th Cir. 1991), 923 F.2d 470; Broadway Books v. Roberts
(E.D. Tenn. 1986), 642 F. Supp. 486; Bright Lights, Inc. v. Township of Newport
(E.D. Ky. 1993), 830 F. Supp. 378; Richland Bookmart v. Nichols (6th Cir.
1998), 137 F.3d 435; Deja Vu v. Metro Government (6th Cir. 1999), 1999 U.S.
App. LEXIS 535; Threesome Entertainment v. Strittmather (N.D. Ohio 1998), 4
F.Supp.2d 710; J.L. Spoons, Inc. v. Township of Brunswick (N.D. Ohio 1999), 49
F. Supp.2d 1032; Triplett Grille, Inc. v. Township of Akron (6th Cir. 1994), 40
F.3d 129; Nightclubs, Inc. v. Township of Paducah (6th Cir. 2000), 202 F.3d
884; O'Connor v. Township and County of Denver (10th Cir. 1990), 894 F.2d 1210;
Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., et al. v. Metropolitan Government of Nashville and
Davidson County (6th Cir. 2001), 2001 U.S. App. LEXIS 26007; State of Ohio ex
rel. Rothal v. Smith (Ohio CP. 2002), Summit CP. No. CV 01094594; Z.J. Gifts D-
2, LLC. v. Township of Aurora (10th Cir. 1998), 136 F.3d 683; Connection
Distrib. Co. v. Reno (6th Cir. 1998), 154 F.3d 281; Sundance Assocs. v. Reno
(10th Cir. 1998), 139 F.3d 804; American Library Association v. Reno (D.C. Cir.
1994), 33 F.3d 78; American Target Advertising, Inc. v. Giani (10th Cir. 2000),
199 F.3d 1241; and other cases and on reports of secondary effects occurring in
and around adult entertainment establishments in Phoenix, Arizona (1984);
Minneapolis, Minnesota (1980); Houston, Texas (1983); Indianapolis, Indiana
(1984); Amarillo, Texas (1977); Garden Grove, California (1991); Los Angeles,
California (1977); Whittier, California (1978); Austin, Texas (1986); Seattle,
Washington (1989); Oklahoma Township, Oklahoma (1986); Cleveland, Ohio (1977);
Dallas, Texas (1997); St. Croix County, Wisconsin (1993); Bellevue, Washington
(1998); Newport News, Virginia (1996); Tucson, Arizona (1990); St. Paul,
Minnesota (1988); Oklahoma Township, Oklahoma (1986 and 1992); Beaumont, Texas
(1982); New York, New York (1994); Ellicottville, New York (1998); Des Moines,
Iowa (1984); Islip, New York (1980); Adams County, Colorado (1987); Manatee
County, Florida (1987); New Hanover County, North Carolina (1989); Las Vegas,
Nevada (1978); Cattaraugas County, New York (1998); Cleburne, Texas (1997);
Dallas, Texas (1997); El Paso, Texas (1986); New York Times Square study
(1994); Report to ACLJ on the Secondary Impacts of Sex Oriented Businesses
(1996); findings from the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group On The
Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota);
and on testimony to Congress in 136 Cong. Rec. S. 8987; 135 Cong. Rec. S.
14519; 135 Cong. Rec. S. 5636, 134 Cong. Rec. E. 3750; and also on findings
from the paper entitled "Stripclubs According to Strippers: Exposing Workplace
Sexual Violence," by Kelly Holsopple, Program Director, Freedom and Justice
Center for Prostitution Resources, Minneapolis, Minnesota; and from "Sexually
Oriented Businesses: An Insider's View," by David Sherman, presented to the
Michigan House Committee on Ethics and Constitutional Law, Jan. 12, 2000; and
from various other police reports, testimony, newspaper reports, and other
documentary evidence, and subsequent findings in Sensations, Inc. v. City of
Grand Rapids, Michigan Decency Action Council (6th Cir. 2008), 526 F.3d 291;
729, Inc. v. Kenton County Fiscal Court (6th Cir. 2008), 515 F.3d 485; and
Andy's Rest. & Lounge, Inc. v. City of Gary (7th Cir. 2006), 466 F.3d 550, and
Council's independent review of the same, Council finds:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
often associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including,
but not limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential
spread of disease, lewdness, public indecency, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on surrounding properties, urban blight, litter,
and sexual assault and exploitation.
      (2)   Illegal and unsanitary acts involving nudity, including lewd
conduct, masturbation, oral and anal sex, occur at unregulated sexually
oriented businesses, including those businesses which provide private or semi-
private rooms, booths, or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live
performances.
      (3)   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the village has a substantial government interest in preventing and/or
abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary effects,
which is the village's rationale for this subchapter, exists independent of any
comparative analysis between sexually oriented and non-sexually oriented
businesses. Additionally, Council's interest in regulating sexually oriented
businesses extends to preventing future secondary effects of either current or
future sexually oriented businesses that may locate in the village. Council
finds that the cases and documentation relied on in this subchapter are
reasonably believed to be relevant to said secondary effects.
      (4)   The enactment of this subchapter will promote the general welfare,
health, morals, and safety of the citizens of the village.
(Ord. 11-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.21  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   As used in this subchapter:
      (1)   "Adult bookstore," "adult cabaret," "adult motion picture theater,"
"adult video store," "characterized by," "nude," "nudity," "state of nudity,"
"seminude," "state of seminudity," "sexual device," "sexual device shop,"
"sexual encounter center," and "specified anatomical areas" have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 2907.40; and
      (2)   "Adult arcade," "adult entertainment," "adult entertainment
establishment," "adult novelty store," "adult theater," "distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon," "nude or seminude model studio,"
"regularly features," "regularly shown," and "sexual encounter establishment"
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      EMPLOYEE.  Any individual on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY.   A person's spouse residing in the person's household,
parents, siblings of the whole or of the half blood, and children, including
adopted children.
      LICENSE.  A license to act or operate a sexually oriented business,
issued pursuant to this subchapter.
      LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate has been issued, as
well as the individual(s) designated on the license application as principally
responsible for the operation of the sexually oriented business. With respect
to an employee license issued under this subchapter, LICENSEE means an employee
as defined in this division (B) in whose name a license has been issued
authorizing employment at sexually oriented business.
      OPERATE.  To control or hold primary responsibility for the operation of
a sexually oriented business, either as a business entity, as an individual, or
as part of a group of individuals with shared responsibility. OPERATE or CAUSE
TO BE OPERATED shall mean to cause to function or to put or keep in operation.
      OPERATOR.   Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises. A person may be found to be
operating or causing to be operated a sexually oriented business whether or not
that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.
      PATRON.   Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business,
except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee's or volunteer's
duties as a public employee or volunteer's duties as a public employee or
volunteer.
      PERSON.   An individual, proprietorship, partnership, firm, association,
joint stock company, corporation or combination of individuals of whatever form
or character.
      PREMISES.   The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not limited,
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.   An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult
cabaret, adult entertainment establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult
novelty store, adult theater, adult video store, sexual device shop, sexual
encounter center, and sexual encounter establishment as defined by  division
(A) of this section, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
(Ord. 11-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.22  UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Nothing contained in this subchapter is intended, or shall be
construed, to permit or authorize activities which are unlawful under state law
or Council Ordinance. It is unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for an
operator to knowingly or intentionally violate the provisions of this
subchapter or to allow, either knowingly or intentionally, an employee or a
patron to violate the provisions of this subchapter. It shall be a defense to
prosecution that the person prosecuted was powerless to prevent the violation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear before a patron or patrons in a state of nudity, regardless of
whether such public nudity is expressive in nature.
   (C)   No employee shall knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented
business, appear within view of any patron in a seminude condition unless the
employee, while seminude, shall be and remain at least five feet from all
patrons and on a fixed stage at least 20 inches from the floor and at least 30
inches from all parts of a clearly designated area in which patrons will be
present.
   (D)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of the
premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding restrooms,
to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. If the premises has
two or more operator's stations designated, then the interior of the premises
shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view of each
area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose
from at least one of the operator's stations. The view required in this
division must be by direct line of sight from the operator's station. It is the
duty of the operator to ensure that at least one employee is on duty and
situated in an operator's station at all times that any patron is on the
portion of the premises monitored by that operator station. It shall be the
duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of any employees present on
the premises, to ensure that the view area specified in this division remains
unobstructed by any doors, curtains, walls, merchandise, display racks or other
materials or enclosures at all times that any patron is present on the
premises.
   (E)   Sexually oriented businesses that do not have stages or interior
configurations which meet at least the minimum requirements of this section
shall be given 180 days from the effective date of this §
114.22 to comply with the stage and building requirements of this section.
During said 180 days, any employee who appears within view of any patron in a
seminude condition shall nevertheless remain, while seminude, at least five
feet from all patrons.
   (F)   No patron who is not a member of the employee's immediate family shall
knowingly touch an employee while that employee is nude or seminude or touch
the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
   (G)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises of
a sexually oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch
a patron who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or another
employee who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or the clothing
of a patron who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or another
employee who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or allow the
patron who is not a member of the employee's immediate family or another
employee who is not a member of the employee's immediate family to touch the
employee or the clothing of the employee.
   (H)   Minors prohibited.  No person under the age of 18 years shall be
permitted on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
   (I)   Hours of operation.  No sexually oriented business shall be or remain
open for business between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that
a sexually oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4303 may remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does
not conduct, offer, or allow sexually oriented business activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (J)   The provisions of this §
114.22, Unlawful Activities, shall not apply to an employee's use of any
restroom or any single-sex dressing room that is accessible only to employees,
and live performances in which the patron and employee are separated by an
impenetrable barrier such as, but not limited too, glass or plexiglas.
(Ord. 11-2010, passed 6-8-10) 
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.23  SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LIABILITY.
   This subchapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental
state is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental
state is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of §
114.22. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of §
114.22, an act by an employee shall be imputed to the sexually oriented
business for purposes of finding a violation of §
114.22 only if an officer, director, general partner or licensee, or a person
who managed, supervised, or controlled the operation of the business premises,
knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to occur on the premises. It shall be
a defense to liability that the person to whom liability is imputed was
powerless to prevent the act.
(Ord. 11-2010, passed 6-8-10)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, business, or entity violating or refusing to comply with
any provisions of this subchapter, (except for violations of §
114.22(F), (G) or (I)), shall, upon conviction, be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a first degree misdemeanor with a penalty
of up to six months in jail and a fine of $1,000. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist or occur, and each separate occurrence, shall constitute a
separate offense. Further, any premises in which a sexually oriented business,
as defined in §
114.21, is repeatedly operated or maintained in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter shall constitute a public nuisance and shall be subject to
civil abatement proceedings initiated by Council in a court of competent
jurisdiction. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist or occur shall
constitute a separate operation or maintenance of the violation.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
114.22(F) or (G) shall be guilty of illegal sexually oriented activity in a
sexually oriented business. If the offender touches a specified anatomical area
of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a specified anatomical
area, a violation of §
114.22(F) or (G) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not
touch a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of §
114.22(F) or (G) is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Whoever violates §
114.22(I) is guilty of illegally operating a sexually oriented business, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, Council may employ any
remedy available at law or in equity to prevent or remedy a violation of any
provision of this subchapter.
(Ord. 11-2010, passed 6-8-10)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
   
130.21   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.22   Reimbursement for expenses of confinement
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor's Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01  APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters.  The word MISDEMEANORS, as used in this Title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor.  Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.01 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01, 2905.02,
2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03, 2909.24,
2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31, 2919.25,
2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1) of R.C. § 2903.34,
of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or of division (B)(1),
(B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service,” “computer,” “computer network,”
“computer software,” “computer system,” “data,” and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the State
Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))  (`94 Code, § 501.01)
§ 130.03  CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)  (`94 Code, § 501.02)
§ 130.04  COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)  (`94 Code, § 501.03)
§ 130.05  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Revised Code shall
be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of guilty to a
substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of this
municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an existing
or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this Code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this Code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)  (`94 Code, § 501.04)
§ 130.06  LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this
section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall be barred
unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense is
committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section apply to a
violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 committed on and after July 16, 2015,
and apply to a violation of either of those sections committed prior to July
16, 2015, if prosecution for that violation was not barred under this section
as it existed on July 15, 2015.
(R.C. § 2901.13)  (`94 Code, § 501.06)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07  REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)  (`94 Code, § 501.07)
§ 130.08  CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)  (`94 Code, § 501.08)
§ 130.09  ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)  (`94 Code, § 501.11)
§ 130.10  PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)  (`94 Code, § 501.12)
§ 130.11  ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense.  An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted.  In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor. 
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.  An attempt
to commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense
under this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)  (`94 Code, § 501.09) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12  COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender.  A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)  (`94 Code, § 501.10) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13  PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   REASONABLE DOUBT is present when the jurors, after they have carefully
considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly convinced
of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and common sense.
Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything relating to
human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some possible or
imaginary doubt. PROOF BEYOND A REASONABLE DOUBT is proof of such character
that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in the most
important of the person's own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14  BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”:  that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self-defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person's use of force in question.  The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15  DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
Statutory reference:
   DNA testing of certain delinquent children, see R.C. § 2152.74
§ 130.16  CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction. 
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. §2901.11)  (`94 Code, § 501.05)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17  DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18  IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F), and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future crime.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral or written
statement made by the victim, the defendant, the defense attorney, or the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19  MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06,
2903.07, 2903.08 or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving
the operation of a motor vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state
correctional institution when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively. When consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and
prison terms are imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies
under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive
terms imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony
before serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20  SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.21  APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 to 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested.  For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices. 
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially similar state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially similar state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.22  REIMBURSEMENT FOR EXPENSES OF CONFINEMENT.
   Any person convicted of a criminal offense other than minor misdemeanor and
who is confined in a prison or station house at the expense of the village as
provided in R.C. § 753.02(A) or who is confined in the Richland or Huron County
jails as provided in R.C. § 1905.35 shall be required to reimburse the village,
to the extent that they are financially able, for the prisoner's expenses
incurred by reason of confinement, including, but not limited to, the expenses
relating to the provision of food, clothing, shelter, medical care and personal
hygiene products. The amount of reimbursement shall be determined by a court at
a hearing held pursuant to R.C. § 2929.223. The Solicitor is hereby authorized
to institute appropriate civil actions against village prisoners to recover
costs of reimbursement as determined by the court, pursuant to R.C. §§ 753.02,
2929.223, et al.
(Ord. 2-97, passed 2-11-97; Am. Ord. 25-98, passed 12-8-98)
§ 130.99  PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Except where otherwise specifically classified within the body of the
section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section shall be deemed
a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more than $500,
imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially similar to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender's behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender's conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) to (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially similar to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 or
133.99 of this Code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) or (C)(6)
of this section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to
law, if the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a
misdemeanor elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender
pursuant to this chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that
shall be one of the following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section.  The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender's term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender's participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §§
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(B), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, also
is convicted of or also pleads guilty to a specification of the type described
in R.C. § 2941.1414 and if the court imposes a jail term on the offender for
the underlying offense, the court shall impose upon the offender an additional
definite jail term of not more than six months. The additional jail term shall
not be reduced pursuant to any provision of the Revised Code. The offender
shall serve the additional jail term consecutively to and prior to the jail
term imposed for the underlying offense and consecutively to any other
mandatory term imposed in relation to the offense.
      (6)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(6)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(6)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(6)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) or
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this Code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (7)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (8)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this Code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender's community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender's probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender's good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender.  The offender's compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   If an offender violates any condition of a community control
sanction, the sentencing court may impose upon the violator one or more of the
following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c)   If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b),
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated
the conditions of a community control sanction based on a minor drug possession
offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, the sentencing court may consider the
offender’s conduct in seeking or obtaining medical assistance for another in
good faith or for self or may consider the offender being the subject of
another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance in accordance with that
division as a mitigating factor before imposing any of the penalties described
in division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division.  Nonresidential
sanctions include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to  500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours. 
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G). If the court in its
discretion imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this section include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense is a minor misdemeanor or could
be disposed of by the Traffic Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13, restitution by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or
any survivor of the victim, in an amount based upon the victim’s economic loss.
The court may not impose restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if
the offense is a minor misdemeanor or could be disposed of by the Traffic
Violations Bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13. If the court
requires restitution, the court shall order that the restitution be made to the
victim in open court or to the adult probation department that serves the
jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of the victim.
            2.   If the court imposes restitution, the court shall determine
the amount of restitution to be paid by the offender. If the court imposes
restitution, the court may base the amount of restitution it orders on an
amount recommended by the victim, the offender, a presentence investigation
report, estimates or receipts indicating the cost of repairing or replacing
property, and other information, provided that the amount the court orders as
restitution shall not exceed the amount of economic loss suffered by the victim
as a direct and proximate result of the commission of the offense. If the court
imposes restitution for the cost of accounting or auditing done to determine
the extent of economic loss, the court may order restitution for any amount of
the victim’s costs of accounting or auditing provided that the amount of
restitution is reasonable and does not exceed the value of property or services
stolen or damaged as a result of the offense. If the court decides to impose
restitution, the court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the
offender, victim, or survivor disputes the amount of restitution. If the court
holds an evidentiary hearing, at the hearing the victim or survivor has the
burden to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the amount of restitution
sought from the offender.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or any
survivor of the victim against the offender.  No person may introduce evidence
of an award of restitution under this section in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   If the court imposes restitution, the court may order that the
offender pay a surcharge, of not more than 5% of the amount of the restitution
otherwise ordered, to the entity responsible for collecting and processing
restitution payments.
            5.   The victim or survivor of the victim may request that the
prosecutor in the case file a motion, or the offender may file a motion, for
modification of the payment terms of any restitution ordered. If the court
grants the motion, it may modify the payment terms as it determines
appropriate.
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including, but not limited to, the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including, but not limited to, a per diem fee for room
and board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of
repairing property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s general fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division  (E),
(F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine
offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to
the treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s general fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under this
division (G), the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to
be credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. §
111.48.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same manner and form as
a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 to 307.92.
         (b)   Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just, except that the
maximum time permitted for payment shall not exceed five years. If the court is
a county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to § 130.09 shall be fined by the
court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to § 130.09,
either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)  (`94 Code, § 501.99)
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime victim's reparations fund, see R.C.§ 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C.  §
2929.42
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers' compensation fraud; medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property; evidence of
lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Advertising on private and public property
   
131.34   Motion picture piracy
   
131.35   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.36   Desecration
Cross-reference:
   Animals, offenses against, see §§
90.10 et seq.
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Ch. 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. §2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. §901.511
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician- intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over  any communications system by
any method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)  (`94 Code, § 545.01)
§ 131.02  ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)  (`94 Code, § 541.02)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector's item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))  (`94 Code, § 541.01)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-
96) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Negligent burning, see §
93.06
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson, felony provisions generally, see R.C. § 2909.03
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.28
§ 131.03  CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person's consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree.  If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.  If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)  (`94 Code, § 541.03)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
   ALLEY, STREET, and VEHICLE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane, road,
street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
   VESSEL and WATERS IN THIS STATE.  Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism.  Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Railroad grade crossing device vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.101
   Railroad vandalism, see R.C. § 2909.10
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04  CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to,
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)  (`94 Code, § 541.04) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.05  DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR GUN.  A hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by means of
releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
   AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE.  Any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
   FIREARM.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   SPRING-OPERATED GUN.  A hand pistol or rifle that propels a projectile not
less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface.  This division does not
apply to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree.  If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.  In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E)) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.06  CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of- way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)  (`94 Code, § 541.05)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)  (`94 Code, § 541.051)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include, but is not limited to, a playing field,
an athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07  TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)  (`94 Code, § 545.12)
§ 131.08  THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is petty theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)  (`94 Code, § 545.05)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor- propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner
or person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)  (`94 Code, § 545.06)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY
AND COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property.  Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community. 
CABLE SYSTEM does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term "cable system" as defined in 47 U.S.C. 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)  (`94 Code, § 545.08)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11  PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non- negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Causing any form of debit from a demand deposit account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)  (`94 Code, § 545.09)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96)
§ 131.12  MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer.
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (3), or (4) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(3), or (4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit card
accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on the
date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)  (`94 Code, § 545.10)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.13  MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)  (`94 Code, § 545.11)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.14  PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)  (`94 Code, § 545.13)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.15  TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)  (`94 Code, § 545.14)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.16  SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)  (`94 Code, § 545.15)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.17  DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors. 
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)  (`94 Code, § 545.17)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.18  RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)  (`94 Code, § 545.18)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 131.19  VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially similar municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
similar municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender's same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense.  The value
of the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose
of determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate
value of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense.  If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially similar municipal ordinance to any of these offenses,  pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense.  If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of
the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense.  If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series.  Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender's same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section.  While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector's item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (2) of this section, and the value of services, is the
fair market value of the property or services.  As used in this section, FAIR
MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a seller
would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is willing to
buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed as to all
facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any compulsion to
act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))  (`94 Code, § 545.02)
§ 131.20  DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer's or
importer's certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)  (`94 Code, § 545.03)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96)
§ 131.21  INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)  (`94 Code, § 541.06)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A)) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.22  DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY .
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply.
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION.  Any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION and FACILITY. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM.   Any public or private nonprofit institution that is permanently
organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or borrows
objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the public
the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM.  A rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) below, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable
length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) below or for the
purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the person
has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (2) below, detain a
person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time within, or in the
immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival institution, if the
officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) above or a merchant or an employee or
agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) above may detain another person
for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner's or lessee's employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) above shall not search the person detained, search or seize any property
belonging to the person detained without the person's consent, or use undue
restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (2) above, that the officer has probable cause to believe
has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or that the
officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act prohibited by R.C.
§ 2913.07.  An arrest under this division shall be made within a reasonable
time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)  (`94 Code, § 545.04)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23  INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS' COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         DATA.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE.  Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including, but not limited to, a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER.  Means any person that is authorized to engage in the
business of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan
Underwriting Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring
corporation, and any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to
its employees or members.
         POLICY.  Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT.  Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud. 
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (4)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
(R.C. § 2913.47)  (`94 Code, § 545.07)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96)
   (B)   Workers' compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers' compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers'
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers' Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau or
Workers' Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers' compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers'
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers'
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers' compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case.  These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         CLAIM.  Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers'
Compensation, an independent third party with whom the administrator or an
employer contracts under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make
payment or reimbursement for workers' compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYER, EMPLOYEE, and SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER.  Have the same
meanings as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT.  Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE.  Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS.  Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers'
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS.  Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers' compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION.  Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers' compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT.  Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS' COMPENSATION BENEFITS.  Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 131.24  INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) – (E)
§ 131.25  EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY; EVIDENCE OF
LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (A), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   RENTER.  A person who owns rented property.
   RENTEE.  A person who pays consideration to a renter for the use of rented
property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) above, a renter may issue
a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property.  The renter
shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was executed, or
to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee's agent furnished in
writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services.  The evidence specified in division (A)(2) above does not
constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 to
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 to
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person's resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.26  FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity,” “identification,” “identification card,” or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards. 
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.  If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))  (`94 Code, § 545.20) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A), (C)(1)
§ 131.27  CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (2) or (3)
of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. 
Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more,
criminal simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.28  PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)  (`94 Code, § 545.16) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Cross-reference:
   Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29  TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person's possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.  If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. 1051 - 1127, as amended,
the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. 2320, as amended,
R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. §§ 2923.31 to
2923.35 or R.C. Chapter 2981, if a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section, an attempt to violate this section, or complicity in
a violation of this section, the court involved shall declare that the goods
described in division (D)(1)(a) of this section and the personal property
described in division (D)(1)(b) of this section are contraband and are
forfeited.  Prior to the court's entry of judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the
owner of a registered trademark or service mark that is the subject to the
counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in which the forfeited goods and
forfeited personal property should be disposed of.  If that owner makes a
timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court is not bound by the
recommendation.  If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of
disposition, the court may include in its entry of judgment an order that
requires appropriate persons to dispose of the forfeited goods and forfeited
personal property in the recommended manner.  If the owner fails to make a
timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or if that owner makes a
timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the court determines to
not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in its entry of
judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that employs the
law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the forfeited
personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. 1051 - 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   COUNTERFEIT MARK.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) of this definition, COUNTERFEIT
MARK means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both
of the following:
         (a)   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which  the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which  the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (1)(a).
         (b)   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
      (2)   COUNTERFEIT MARK does not include a mark or other designation that
is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or
services if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation
authorizes the manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to
attach, affix, or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection
with those goods or services at the time of their manufacture, production or
sale.
   CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE.  The product of the lowest single unit sales price
charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender's possession, custody or
control.
   REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK.  A trademark or service mark that is
registered in a manner described in division (1) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark.”
   TRADEMARK and SERVICE MARK.  Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 1329.54
(R.C. § 2913.34) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.30  DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.31  RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.32  PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe- line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18) (Rev. 2013)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)  (`94 Code, § 545.19)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96)
§ 131.33  ADVERTISING ON PRIVATE AND PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Private property.  No person shall stick or post any advertisement,
poster, sign, handbill or placard of any kind on any building, vehicle, tree,
post, fence, billboard or other structure or thing which is the private
property of another without permission of the occupant or owner of the same, or
paint, mark, write, print or impress, or in any manner attach, any notice or
advertisement or the name of any commodity or thing or any trade mark, symbol
or figure of any kind upon anything which is the property of another without
first obtaining permission of the owner of such thing.
   (B)   Public property.  No person shall stick, post or attach any
advertisement, poster, sign, handbill or placard of any kind on any telegraph,
telephone, railway or electric light pole within the corporate limits or upon
any public building, vehicle, voting booth, flagging, curb, tree lawn, walk,
step, stone or sidewalk, or write, print or impress, or in any manner attach,
any notice or advertisement of any kind upon any public building, voting booth,
flagging, curb, tree lawn, step, stone or sidewalk, the property of the
municipality or within the street lines of the municipality or over which the
municipality or Council has the care, custody or control, except as hereinafter
provided or such as may be required by the laws of the state or the ordinances
of the municipality.
      (1)   This section shall not prevent any such attachment of any signs by
the municipality for traffic-control purposes or any such other purpose as
determined to be necessary by the municipality.
      (2)   Banners, for civic purposes, may be connected to utility poles, or
as may otherwise be permitted, for the purpose of extension across roadways and
may be so extended across roadways within the municipality, upon approval of
the Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall consider the purpose, the nature
of the banner (i.e., size, shape, color, material, etc.) the manner of
attachment, traffic and other safety concerns and any other factors he deems
relevant in determining whether any such banner shall be approved. Any person
disagreeing with a decision of the Chief of Police, under this section may
appeal to Council. The decision of a majority of Council shall be
determinative.
   (C)   Penalty.  Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(`94 Code, § 541.09)  (Ord. 20-84, passed 8-30-84) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.34  MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
   AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION means the capability of a device to record or
transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of any
technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
   FACILITY means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 131.35  RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 131.36  DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Using unreasonable sound amplifying devices
   
132.16   Minors' curfew
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
   Emergency powers of Mayor, see § 31.01
§ 132.01  RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)  (`94 Code, § 509.01) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02  FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially similar municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse.  No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)  (`94 Code, § 509.02) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.03  JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person's duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)  (`94 Code, § 509.03)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.05  DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2917.12)  (`94 Code, § 509.04) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.06  MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person's duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer's duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative's duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an
emergency.  Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an
emergency is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.  If violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an
emergency is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
   EMERGENCY FACILITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
   EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON.  Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)  (`94 Code, § 509.05) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.07  TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person's control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient's family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person's control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.  If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider's, officer's, employee's, or agent's provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section.  A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider's, officer's,
employees, or agent's provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER.  Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person's control.
      ECONOMIC HARM.  Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct.  The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION and TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE.  Have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act,” 15 U.S.C. 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act,” 47 U.S.C. 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)  (`94 Code, § 537.10)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 132.08  INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.  If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or
more, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. 
If the public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or
an institution of higher education and if the violation results in economic
harm, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If a violation of this section pertains to a purported, threatened or actual
use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing panic is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section;
   BIOLOGICAL AGENT has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
   ECONOMIC HARM means any of the following:
      (1)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered by
a victim as a result of the criminal conduct.  “Economic harm” as described in
this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      (2)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as a
result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that constituted
the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any substantially similar
municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all costs so incurred by any
law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue personnel, or emergency medical
services personnel of the state or the political subdivision.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
   INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Ohio Board of Regents pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
   SCHOOL means any school operated by a board of education or any school for
which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a violation of
this section is committed.
   WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION means any of the following:
      (1)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or serious
physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
      (2)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
      (3)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or radioactivity
at a level dangerous to human life;
      (4)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or device
in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive device”
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that section:
         (a)   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
         (b)   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use in
converting any item or device into any item or device described in division (4)
(a) of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)  (`94 Code, § 509.06) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.09  MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur.
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. 
Except as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.  If a violation of this section results in
economic harm of $1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.  If a violation of this section
pertains to a purported, threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass
destruction, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this Code of Ordinances may be prosecuted under
this section, the other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)  (`94 Code, § 509.07) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.10  INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence.  If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.  If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)  (Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96)
§ 132.11  UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)  (`94 Code, § 525.14) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.12  IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An employee of the United States who serves
in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
   IMPERSONATE.  To act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the uniform
or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a particular
person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make another person
believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member of that class
of persons.
   INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
   PEACE OFFICER.  Means a sheriff, deputy sheriff, marshal, deputy marshal,
member of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or
township constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer
appointed under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans' home police officer appointed under
R.C. § 5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under
R.C. § 4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any
of its agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by
statute, a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is
imposed and the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of
that statutory duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose
primary duties are to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to
enforce the laws, ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political
subdivisions.
   PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER.  Any security guard, special police officer, private
detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.  Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.  Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)  (`94 Code, § 525.03) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13  SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONCERT.  A musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. A CONCERT
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
   FACILITY.  Any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that has walls
that wholly surround the area on all sides, including, but not limited to, a
stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall, convention
center or music hall.
   LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE.  Any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. A LIVE
ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE does not include any form of entertainment with
respect to which the person purchasing a ticket routinely participates in
amusements as well as views performers.
   PERSON.  Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in R.C.
§ 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
   RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA.  Any wholly or partially enclosed area,
whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only.”
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division.  In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors:
            1.   The size and design of the facility in which the concert is
scheduled;
            2.   The size, age and anticipated conduct of the crowd expected to
attend the concert;
            3.   The ability of the sponsor to manage and control the expected
crowd.
         If the sponsor of any concert desires to obtain an exemption under
this division, the sponsor shall apply to the appropriate official on a form
prescribed by that official. The official shall issue an order that grants or
denies the exemption within five day. after receipt of the application. The
sponsor may appeal any order that denies an exemption to the Court of Common
Pleas of the county in which the facility is located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances.  The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If any individual suffers physical harm to
his or her person as a result of a violation of this section, the sentencing
court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of imprisonment
upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.14  MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 to 306.13, a regional
transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 to 306.71, or a
regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.80 to
306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. 
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially similar to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.15  USING UNREASONABLE SOUND AMPLIFYING DEVICES.
   (A)   No person shall generate or permit to be generated unreasonable noise
or loud sound which is likely to cause inconvenience or annoyance to persons of
ordinary sensibilities by means of a radio, phonograph, television, tape
player, compact disc player, loud speaker or any other sound amplifying device
or by a horn, drum, piano or other musical or percussion instrument. It is
prima facie unlawful for a person to generate or permit to be generated sound
by the above described devices or instruments in the following circumstances:
      (1)   On private property where the sound is audible more than 60 feet
from the source of the sound; or
      (2)   In two-family and multi-family dwellings where the sound is audible
beyond the confines of the unit from where the source of the sound is
generated;
      (3)   On a street, highway or in the public right-of-way where the sound
is audible 60 feet from the device generating the sound. Persons in possession
of a current permit or activities of a school are exempt from the provisions of
this division.
   (B)   No person, being the owner, or person in possession of a premises or
person in control of the premises by reason of employment, agency or otherwise,
whether such ownership, possession or control is exclusive or joint, shall
permit a violation of this section.
   (C)   Warning and alarm devices which have the purpose of signaling unsafe
or dangerous situations or calling for police are exempted from the
prohibitions of this section when used for such purposes.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, except
that if the offender persists in this violation after reasonable warning or
request to desist, a violation hereof is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(Ord. 25-97, passed 8-12-97) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 132.16  MINORS' CURFEW.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 18 years shall loiter, idle, stroll or play
in or upon the public parks, streets, sidewalks or other facilities of the
village between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the following day,
unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to minors while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department  about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (C)   No parent, guardian or other person having the care, custody or
control of any minor under the age of 18 years shall knowingly permit such
minor to violate this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) hereof shall be dealt with in accordance
with Juvenile Court law and procedure or, upon the first offense, at the
discretion of the Chief of Police, may be detained at the village facility
until called for by his or her legal guardian or a responsible adult and
thereafter discharged with a verbal reprimand.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) hereof is guilty of a minor misdemeanor
for a first offense. For a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(`94 Code, § 509.09)  (Ord. 12-79, passed 8-7-79; Am. Ord. 14-84, passed 8-14-
84; Am. Ord. 10-96, passed 4-9-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
CHAPTER 133:  SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Voyeurism
   
133.05   Public indecency
   
133.06   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.07   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.08   Prostitution
   
133.09   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.10   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Rules of evidence
   
133.13   Declaratory judgment
   
133.14   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.15   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.16   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.17   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.18   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.20   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 - 2907.30
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.   That quality of any material or performance
describing or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-
masochistic abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest in sex of juveniles.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE.  Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL.   Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR.  A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY.   The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE.   When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
OBSCENE  if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE.  Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PROSTITUTE.   A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY.   Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT.   Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another.  Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT.  Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT.   The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE.   A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)  (`94 Code, § 533.01)
§ 133.02  UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)   No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another who is not the spouse of the offender, when the offender
knows the other person is 13 years of age or older but less than 16 years of
age, or the offender is reckless in that regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
similar municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially similar municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)  (`94 Code, § 533.03) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 133.03  SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)   No person shall have sexual contact with another, not the spouse of
the offender; cause another, not the spouse of the offender, to have sexual
contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to have sexual
contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person's, or one of the other
person's ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender's or
touching person's conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim's testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)  (`94 Code, § 533.04)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04  VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, or otherwise record the
other person in a state of nudity.
   (C)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another to videotape, film, photograph, otherwise record, or spy or
eavesdrop upon the other person in a state of nudity if the other person is a
minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph, or otherwise record another person under or through the clothing
being worn by that person for the purpose of viewing the body of, or the
undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)  (`94 Code, § 533.06) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 133.05  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the person’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was likely
to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section  is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.09)  (`94 Code, § 533.07) 
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)  (`94 Code, § 533.07) 
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
§ 133.06  PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
      (2)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
   (B)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured, patronized,
or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(2) of this section is
under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the
offender who violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s
age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in premises
used in violation of division (B) of this section is under 18 years of age at
the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who violates
division (B) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)  (`94 Code, § 533.08)
   (D)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice, or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
   (E)   As used in division (D) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of engaging in
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In sentencing the offender
under this division, the court shall require the offender to attend an
education or treatment program aimed at preventing persons from inducing,
enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual activity for hire in
exchange for the person giving anything of value to the other person and,
notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for a misdemeanor
of the first degree, the court may impose upon the offender a fine of not more
than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 133.07  SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24) (`94 Code, § 533.09)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (D) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE means any of the following:
         (1)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (2)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (1) of this definition.
         (3)   A place not described in division (1) or (2) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)    Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.08  PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)  (`94 Code, § 533.10) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09  DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver's license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles.  If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)  (`94 Code, § 533.11)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality.  Such notice,
regardless of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender,
identify the material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or
harmful to juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.09 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator's or projectionist's place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.09,
133.10 and
133.11(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person's control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from a the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.09,
133.10, or
133.11 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (E)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to a an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.09,
133.10, or
133.11 and that contain content that person has selected and placed in or on
the facility, system, or network or content over which that person exercises
editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.09,
133.10, or
133.11 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee's or agent's conduct is within the scope of the employee's or agent's
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee's or agent's conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee's or agent's
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.09 or
133.10 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)  (`94 Code, § 533.02)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 133.10  DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.  Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)  (`94 Code, § 533.15) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 133.11  DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree.  A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)  (`94 Code, § 533.13) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.12  RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.06 to
133.08, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused's spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.06 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender's premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07(A) or §
133.08.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.13  DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party's request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.14  INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be violated,
the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to enjoin the
violation.  The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to trial on the
merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the court shall
render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.15  UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.16  JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin- operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club,
or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are
served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT means an adult arcade, adult bookstore,
adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture
theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual encounter
establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an “adult
entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including, but not limited to,
massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual
encounter establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male or
female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including, but not
limited to, a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on
the premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
Deputy Registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or Deputy
Registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.17  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment that has
as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or inventory in,
derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from, devotes a
significant or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising to,
or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale
or rental, for any form of consideration, of books, magazines, periodicals, or
other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
compact discs, slides, or other visual representations, that are characterized
by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where films,
motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions
that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown to more than five
individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Any individual who performs any service on the premises of a
sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C.  §
2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation the
business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented business
except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. The real property on which the sexually oriented business is
located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not limited,
to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and parking
lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually oriented
business.
      REGULARLY. Consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts or
for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including, but not
limited to, dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. A commercial establishment that regularly features
sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical clinic, or
establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare products
or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does not
restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult bookstore, adult video store, adult
cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual encounter
center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its showing,
selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. §2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.18  POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, or other public official shall not
ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a polygraph
examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation of the alleged
sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.19  UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.20  NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.99  SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134:  GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal  corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in §
134.02 (G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
   VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
   VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
   VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for profit,
that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or
to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or younger
by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support
of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
   YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
      (1)   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy both
of the following:
         (a)   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one or
more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
         (b)   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making activity
at any time during the year.
      (2)   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)  (`94 Code, § 517.01)
§ 134.02  PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))  (`94 Code, § 517.02)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.03  OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)  (`94 Code, § 517.03) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 134.04  PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)  (`94 Code, § 517.04) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 134.05  CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)  (`94 Code, § 517.05)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 134.06  REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)  (`94 Code, § 517.06) 
§ 134.07  RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)  (`94 Code, § 517.07)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.08  REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.  Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)  (`94 Code, § 517.08) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 134.09  BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections
134.06 through
134.13 and 134.15 do not apply to bingo games that are conducted for the
purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted for the purpose of
amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements specified in either
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)  (`94 Code, § 517.09)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.10  PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 134.11  RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and is described
in IRC §§ 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or
501(c)(19) may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and
does not need a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing
that is not for profit.
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1) of this
section, but that is not also described in IRC § 501(c)(3), conducts a raffle,
the person or entity shall distribute at least 50% of the net profit from the
raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C. § 2915.01(V) or to a
department or agency of the federal government, the state, or any political
subdivision.
   (B)   A chamber of commerce may conduct not more than one raffle per year to
raise money for the chamber of commerce.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A) or (B) of this section, no person
shall conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is
not for profit.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.12  INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.13  RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.14  SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced-price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 134.15  ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in IRC § 501
(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), and is described in
IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135:  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   (Reserved)
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Unlawful abortion; failure to perform viability testing
   
135.12   Abortion trafficking
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for functionally impaired person
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
   
135.29   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
Statutory reference:
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER'S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON'S UNBORN.  A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
   UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER'S PREGNANCY.  Causing the death of an unborn
member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms ANOTHER'S UNBORN, OTHER PERSON'S UNBORN and UNLAWFUL
TERMINATION OF ANOTHER'S PREGNANCY that are set forth in division (A) of this
section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman.  An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable.  An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 135.02  NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another's pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)  (`94 Code, § 537.01) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03  VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, snowmobile, locomotive, watercraft, or aircraft,
shall cause the death of another or the unlawful termination of another's
pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided that this division
applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender's
commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in a
construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies only
if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is unlawfully terminated
is in the construction zone at the time of the offender's commission of the
speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply as described in
division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
   CONSTRUCTION ZONE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM and MANDATORY JAIL TERM have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 2929.01.
   MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
   SPEEDING OFFENSE means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
   TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE means a violation
of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that section
applies, a violation of R.C. §§ 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of R.C. §§
2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
   TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER OFFENSE means
a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances in which the
offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the violation, a violation
of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the deadly weapon used in the
commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an attempt to commit
aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in circumstances in
which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to attempt to commit the
aggravated murder or murder.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)  (`94 Code, § 537.02)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle or motorcycle, shall cause serious physical harm to another
person or another’s unborn as the proximate result of committing, while
operating or participating in the operation of a motor vehicle or motorcycle in
a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this division applies
only if the person to whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose
unborn the serious physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the
time of the offender’s commission of the speeding offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G)) ) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
   Trial court to suspend or revoke driver's license, see R.C. §§4510.05
§ 135.04  ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(G).
(R.C. § 2903.13)  (`94 Code, § 537.03)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another's unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)  (`94 Code, § 537.04)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Aggravated vehicular assault, felony, see R.C. § 2903.08
   Felony offenses: assaulting functionally impaired person, peace officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation,
firefighter, person performing emergency medical service, officer or employee
of a public children services agency or private child placing agency; assault
at a correctional institution; assault on school officials and school bus
drivers; health care professional, worker or security guard at a hospital under
certain circumstances; judge, magistrate, prosecutor or court official or
employee under certain circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.05  INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C)) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) – (E)
§ 135.06  MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (A)(2), menacing is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or
employee of a public children services agency or a private child placing agency
and the offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or
anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties, menacing is a
misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that
prior offense was an officer or employee of a public children services agency
or private child placing agency, and that prior offense related to the
officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official
responsibilities or duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (A), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)  (`94 Code, § 537.06)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21)  (`94 Code, § 537.05)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT.  Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct.”
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(C)(1)(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)  (`94 Code, § 537.051)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders,  see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07  UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01
(R.C. § 2905.03)  (`94 Code, § 537.08) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.08  (RESERVED)
§ 135.09  COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which he or she has a legal freedom of choice, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage his or her personal or
business repute, or to impair his or her credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which he or she is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing probation on certain conditions, including without
limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or redress to the victim
of his or her offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (4),
or (5) of this section that the actor's conduct was a reasonable response to
the circumstances which occasioned it, and that his or her purpose was limited
to:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section, THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat
by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)  (`94 Code, § 537.09) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.10  BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor's spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.11  UNLAWFUL ABORTION; FAILURE TO PERFORM VIABILITY TESTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABORTION.  The purposeful termination of a human pregnancy by any person,
including the pregnant woman herself, with an intention other than to produce a
live birth or to remove a dead fetus or embryo.
(R.C. § 2919.11)
   EMANCIPATED.  A minor shall be considered emancipated if the minor has
married, entered the armed services of the United States, become employed and
self-subsisting, or has otherwise become independent from the care and control
of her parent, guardian or custodian.
   UNEMANCIPATED.  A woman who is unmarried and under 18 years of age who has
not entered the armed services of the United States, has not become employed
and self-subsisting, or has not otherwise become independent from the care and
control of her parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (B)   No person shall perform or induce an abortion without the informed
consent of the pregnant woman.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a
pregnant minor unless one of the following is the case:
      (1)   The attending physician has secured the informed written consent of
the minor and one parent, guardian or custodian;
      (2)   The minor is emancipated and the attending physician has received
her informed written consent;
      (3)   The minor has been authorized to consent to the abortion by a court
order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2919.121(C) and the attending physician has
received her informed written consent; or
      (4)    The court has given its consent in accordance with R.C. § 2919.121
(C) and the minor is having the abortion willingly.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly perform or induce an abortion upon a woman
who is pregnant, unmarried, under 18 years of age, and unemancipated unless at
least one of the circumstances enumerated in R.C. § 2919.12(B) applies.
   (E)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (D) of
this section that the pregnant woman provided the person who performed or
induced the abortion with false, misleading, or incorrect information about her
age, marital status, or emancipation, about the age of the brother or sister to
whom she requested notice to be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian, or about the last known address of
either of her parents, her guardian, her custodian, or a specified brother,
sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom she requested notice be given and
the person who performed or induced the abortion did not otherwise have
reasonable cause to believe the pregnant woman was under 18 years of age,
unmarried, or unemancipated, to believe that the age of the brother or sister
to whom she requested notice be given as a specified relative instead of one of
her parents, her guardian, or her custodian was not 21 years of age, or to
believe that the last known address of either of her parents, her guardian, her
custodian, or a specified brother, sister, stepparent, or grandparent to whom
she requested notice be given was incorrect.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
compliance with the requirements of this section was not possible because an
immediate threat of serious risk to the life or physical health of the pregnant
woman or pregnant minor from the continuation of her pregnancy created an
emergency necessitating the immediate performance or inducement of an abortion.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful abortion.  A
violation of division (B), (C) or (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree on the first offense and a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is liable to the pregnant woman or
pregnant minor, and her parents, guardian, or custodian for civil, compensatory
and exemplary damages.
(R.C. §§ 2919.12, 2919.121)
   (H)   (1)   Division (C) of this section applies in lieu of division (D) of
this section whenever its operation is not enjoined.  If division (C) of this
section is enjoined, division (D) of this section applies.
      (2)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (D) of this
section under the good faith belief that the application or enforcement of
division (C) of this section is subject to a restraining order or injunction,
good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense to any civil,
criminal or professional disciplinary action brought under division (C) of this
section or R.C. § 2919.121.
      (3)   If a person complies with the requirements of division (C) of this
section under the good faith belief that it is not subject to a restraining
order or injunction, good faith compliance shall constitute a complete defense
to any civil, criminal or professional disciplinary action for failure to
comply with the requirements of division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 2919.122)
   (I)   Failure to perform viability testing.
      (1)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation unless, prior to the performance or inducement of the abortion or the
attempt to perform or induce the abortion, the physician determines, in the
physician’s good faith medical judgment, that the unborn child is not viable,
and the physician makes that determination after performing a medical
examination of the pregnant woman and after performing or causing to be
performed those tests for assessing gestational age, weight, lung maturity, or
other tests that the physician, in that physician’s good faith medical
judgment, believes are necessary to determine whether an unborn child is
viable.
      (2)   Except in a medical emergency that prevents compliance with this
division, no physician shall perform or induce or attempt to perform or induce
an abortion on a pregnant woman after the beginning of the twentieth week of
gestation without first entering the determination made in division (I)(1) of
this section and the associated findings of the medical examination and tests
in the medical record of the pregnant woman.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (I) is guilty of failure to perform
viability testing, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   The State Medical Board shall suspend a physician’s license to
practice medicine in this state for a period of not less than six months if the
physician violates this section.
(R.C. § 2919.18) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Judicial bypass, see R.C. § 2151.85
   Judicial consent and the right of a minor to consent, see R.C. § 2919.121(C)
   Notice or consent requirements for unmarried minors, see R.C. § 2919.12(B)
§ 135.12  ABORTION TRAFFICKING.
   (A)   No person shall experiment upon or sell the product of human
conception which is aborted.  Experiment does not include autopsies pursuant to
R.C. §§ 313.13 and 2108.50.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abortion trafficking, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.14) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.13  NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   His or her spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   His or her legitimate or illegitimate child who is under age 18, or
mentally or physically disabled child who is under age 21;
      (3)   His or her aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from lack
of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for his or her own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused, or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or was mentally or
physically disabled and under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. 
      (2)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a felony violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.  If the offender is
guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of failing to provide support to
his or her child as required by a child support order issued on or after April
15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21,
3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or former R.C. § 3115.31, the
court, in addition to any other sentence imposed, shall assess all court costs
arising out of the charge against the person and require the person to pay any
reasonable attorney's fees of any adverse party other than the state, as
determined by the court, that arose in relation to the charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.  Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.14  ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control, or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age, shall create
a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a duty of
care, protection, or support.  It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection, or support under this division when the parent, guardian,
custodian, or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical
or mental illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a mentally or physically disabled child under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child.
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child.
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child.
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child's mental health or development.
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle.  Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation
of this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division.  For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 to 4511.197 and
all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
   MATERIAL, PERFORMANCE, OBSCENE, and S EXUAL ACTIVITY have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 2907.01.
   NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a minor
in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person applying
contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
   S EXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b),(c) or (d), a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially similar state law or municipal ordinance,
or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the
delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in
division (E)(1)(c) or (d) of this section, endangering children is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (3), (4), (5) or (6) of
this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (c), endangering children in
violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially similar state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense
involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of or
physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)(c)
of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. §§ 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (b) or (c) of this section or pursuant to any other
provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender's driver's
license or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other provision
of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven suspension of
the offender's driver's or commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (b), (c) or (d) of this section or pursuant to any other provision
of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as a part of the
same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or pleads guilty to
a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of
the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also shall be
sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially similar municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the violation
of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the
violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially similar municipal
ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A) or a substantially similar municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))  (`94 Code, § 537.07) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15  INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (b) or (c) of this section from the parent,
guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)(a), (b) or
(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a mentally or physically
disabled child under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c)   A person committed by law to an institution for the mentally ill
or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child's health or
safety.  It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under
division (A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) above is a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the child
who is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from the
state or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under this
section or a substantially similar state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.  If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (c) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.  Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person's initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree. 
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially similar state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.16  DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)  (`94 Code, § 537.14) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17  HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, HAZING means doing any act or coercing
another, including the victim, to do any act of initiation into any student or
other organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental
or physical harm to any person.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, or faculty member of any primary,
secondary, or post- secondary school or of any other educational institution,
public or private, shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of hazing, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2903.31) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18  CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)  (`94 Code, § 537.18)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   DNA testing of delinquent children, see R.C. § 2152.74
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19  FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in physical harm or serious physical harm to
the functionally impaired person.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a functionally impaired
person under his or her care with any treatment, care, goods, or service that
is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the functionally impaired
person when this failure results in serious physical harm to the functionally
impaired person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the first degree.  If the functionally impaired person under the offender's
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a functionally impaired person, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.  If the functionally impaired person under the offender's
care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the violation of this
section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)   As used in this section:
   CARETAKER means a person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a functionally impaired person on a voluntary basis, by contract,
through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a family
relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.  CARETAKER does
not include a person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. §  2903.33.
   FUNCTIONALLY IMPAIRED PERSON means any person who has a physical or mental
impairment that prevents the person from providing for his or her own care or
protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for his or her own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.20  PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION .
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor's conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree.  If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or defect of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect.  No
care facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate
against any person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a
complaint, affidavit, or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of
this section or a violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21  INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.22  ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (4), or (5), by reason of the race, color, religion,
or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. 
Ethnic intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense
the commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation.  In the
case of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic
intimidation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)  (`94 Code, § 541.08) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.23  VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-STALKING 
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) (3) or (4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent and subject to the maximum amount
allowable and the rules promulgated by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2903.214, the court shall order that the offender pay the costs of the
installation of the electronic monitoring device and the cost of monitoring the
electronic monitoring device. If the court determines that the offender is
indigent, the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device and
the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device may be paid out of
funds from the reparations fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191.  The total
amount paid from the Reparations Fund created pursuant to R.C. § 2743.191 for
electronic monitoring under R.C. §§ 2151.34, 2903.214 and 2919.27 shall not
exceed $300,000 per year.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith a credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)    As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF
ANOTHER STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court
of another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection.  The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)  (`94 Code, § 537.15)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 135.24  ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)  (`94 Code, § 537.13)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C)) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25  ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to
any person under 21 years of age;
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)   Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21 years
of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under 21
years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
         (b)   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
         (c)   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d),
(A)(2)(e), or (A)(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of illegal
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal distribution
of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)(e), or (A)
(2)(f) or (A)(3) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (7)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)  (`94 Code, § 537.16)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS means a person who is:
            1.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. § 5743.15;
            2.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
            3.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Section 5702 of
the Internal Revenue Code;
            4.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
            5.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or of
this state acting in the person’s official capacity;
            6.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
            7.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by the
Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this division (D) is to prevent the sale of
cigarettes to minors and to ensure compliance with the Master Settlement
Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes to any
person in this municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco
products.
         (b)   No motor carrier or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes to any person in this municipality that the carrier or other person
reasonably believes is not an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If
cigarettes are transported to a home or residence, it shall be presumed that
the motor carrier or other person knew that the person to whom the cigarettes
were delivered was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes who ships
or causes to be shipped cigarettes to any person in this municipality in any
container or wrapping other than the original container or wrapping of the
cigarettes shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of the container
or wrapping in which the cigarettes are shipped with the words “cigarettes”.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
§ 135.26  NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies, or political subdivisions, including but not limited to hospitals and
state institutions for the mentally ill and persons with intellectual
disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms within those
buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other persons
affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation.  That portion of a
building or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state
agency, or a political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food
service establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public.  Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety.  The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area.  In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its legislative
authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area.  In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking
area.  In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also
included in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to
designate the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate
the no smoking area.  A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly.  Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are
clearly visible and that state “no smoking.”  No person shall remove signs from
areas designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 135.27  SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that he or
she is suffering from a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to
take reasonable measures to prevent exposing himself or herself to other
persons, except when seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom he or she knows or
has reasonable cause to believe is suffering from a dangerous, contagious
disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to protect others
from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities of the
existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C)) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28  ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree.  Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01) 
Penalty, see § 130.99 
§ 135.29  UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
CHAPTER 136:  OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facility
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see § 70.02
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)  (`94 Code, § 525.01)
§ 136.02  FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)    (`94 Code, § 525.02)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03  COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially similar
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)  (`94 Code, § 525.04) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.04  FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to him or her in his or her capacity as such by a person
seeking his or her aid or counsel.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
of treatment or services for drug dependent persons or persons in danger of
drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a hospital,
clinic, person, agency, or community addiction services provider whose alcohol
and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of his or her duties in connection with a bona fide program
for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are violations of
R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.05, or to victims of felonious sexual penetration in
violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this division, COUNSELING
SERVICES include services provided in an informal setting by a person who, by
education or experience, is competent to provide such services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)  (`94 Code, § 525.05)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 136.05  FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)  (`94 Code, § 525.06)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 136.06  OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official's official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official's lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business.  Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree.  If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)  (`94 Code, § 525.07) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.07  OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed.  The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
   ACT OF TERRORISM has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
   ADULT and CHILD have the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
   DELINQUENT CHILD has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)  (`94 Code, § 525.08)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.08  RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest.  A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree.  A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.  A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)  (`94 Code, § 525.09)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09  HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official's becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract.  Violation of division (A)(1) or (2) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.  Violation of division (A)
(3), (4), or (5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
   PUBLIC CONTRACT.  Any of the following:
      (1)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
      (2)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)  (`94 Code, § 525.10) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10  SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant's official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant's public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant's
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant's
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant's official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant's own personal or business
use and no person for the person's own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)  (`94 Code, § 525.11) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.11  DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)  (`94 Code, § 525.12)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 136.12  INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)  (`94 Code, § 525.13)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C.  § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises,  felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14  FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.15  ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer's official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct is
assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance of the officer’s duties
or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog is assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired,
or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused or
attempted.
      (2)   The dog is not assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing
impaired, or mobility impaired person at the time the physical harm is caused
or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog is an
assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person who is
being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a manner that does any of the
following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper, or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired
person or that the person knows is an assistance dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of
this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the Police Department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog regarding a violation
of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility impaired person assisted or
served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the
violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on either a
temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or horse and of
any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new assistance dog by a
law enforcement officer or by the blind, deaf or hearing impaired, or mobility
impaired person assisted or served by the assistance dog, which replacement or
training is required because of the death of or the serious physical harm to
the dog or horse that was the subject of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ASSISTANCE DOG, BLIND and MOBILITY IMPAIRED PERSON. Have the same meaning
as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Any injury, illness, or other psychological impairment,
regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. A dog or horse that has been trained and may be used
to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321) 
§ 136.16  DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)  (Rev. 2008)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE and YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 149.43.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk's office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, who
is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer from
disclosing his or her own home address, and does not apply to any person who
discloses the home address of a peace officer pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer who is a witness or
arresting officer in the case, if the court determines after a written request
for the disclosure that good cause exists for disclosing the home address of
the peace officer.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor's
Court, shall order a peace officer, as defined by R.C. § 2935.01, who is a
witness in a criminal case, to disclose his or her home address during his or
her examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the
defendant has a right to the disclosure.
(R.C. § 2921.25) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.17  INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18  USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply:
   LAWFULLY ISSUED.  Adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with the United
States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable statutes,
rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and the
political subdivisions of a state.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.  Municipal corporations, townships, counties, school
districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are organized under
state law and are responsible for governmental activities only in geographical
areas smaller than that of a state.
   SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.  An instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
   STATE.  A state of the United States, including without limitation the state
legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide jurisdiction,
the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments, boards,
offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other instrumentalities of
the state.  STATE does not include the political subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (2)
of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. 
A violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.  A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.  A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D)) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19  MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 136.20  MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the telephone number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)   In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.32(E) - (G))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.21  FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137:  WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Discharging firearms
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY.  Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small- arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include  “fireworks,”
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISON-MENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. SAWED-OFF FIREARM does not include any firearm with an
overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the Federal
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun Control Act
of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau
not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26
U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)  (`94 Code, § 549.01)
§ 137.02  CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, and is
carrying a concealed handgun, fail to promptly inform any law enforcement
officer who approaches the person after the person has been stopped that the
person has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the person then is
carrying a concealed handgun;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who,
at the time of the alleged carrying or possession of a handgun, either is
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1), unless the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall be
required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the dismissal
of the charge.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(6) of this section, if a person
being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of this section promptly
produces a valid concealed handgun license, and if at the time of the violation
the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the
officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division. If the
person is not able to promptly produce any concealed handgun license and if the
person is not in a place described in that section, the officer may arrest the
person for a violation of that division, and the offender shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, carrying concealed
weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree, and, in addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If, at the time
of the stop of the offender for a law enforcement purpose that was the basis of
the violation, any law enforcement officer involved with the stop had actual
knowledge that the offender has been issued a concealed handgun license,
carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a
minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun license shall not be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12)  (`94 Code, § 549.02)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.03  USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)  (`94 Code, § 549.03) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 137.04  IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to promptly inform any law enforcement officer who approaches
the vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle;
      (2)   Fail to promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the person has been issued a concealed handgun
license or is authorized to carry a concealed handgun as an active duty member
of the armed forces of the United States and that the person then possesses or
has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is either
carrying a valid concealed handgun license or is an active duty member of the
armed forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military
identification card and documentation of successful completion of firearms
training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. §
2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was the basis of
the violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on
or after September 30, 2011, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.37 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.37 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. Violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division (C)
of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division
(D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law
and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is also a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree, and, in addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for the violation, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). If at the time of
the stop of the offender for a traffic stop, for another law enforcement
purpose, or for a purpose defined in R.C. § 5503.34 that was the basis of the
violation any law enforcement officer involved with the stop or the employee of
the motor carrier enforcement unit who made the stop had actual knowledge of
the offender’s status as a licensee, a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)(2)
of this section is a minor misdemeanor, and the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall not be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation
of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In addition to any other
penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation of division (E)(3) or
(E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun license shall be
suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of division (B) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who is carrying a valid
concealed handgun license to have one or more magazines or speed loaders
containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle, without being transported as
described in those divisions, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm, other
than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any other
provision of this chapter. A person who is carrying a valid concealed handgun
license may have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition
anywhere in a vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is
in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted
under any provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)  (`94 Code, § 549.04)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05  POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools. 
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 137.06  FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To ensure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)  (`94 Code, § 549.05) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 137.07  UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person's
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)  (`94 Code, § 549.06)   
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 137.08  UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult.  Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09  DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises.  No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person's own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person's
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of discharge
of a firearm on or near prohibited premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or
(A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (A)(3) shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   (1)   Hunting near township park.  No person shall hunt, shoot, or
kill game within ½ mile of a township park unless the Board of Township Park
Commissioners has granted permission to kill game not desired within the limits
prohibited by this division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Exceptions.  This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation's armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials in
the proper enforcement of the law, or to any person in the proper exercise of
the right of self defense, or to any person otherwise lawfully permitted by
proper federal, state or local authorities to discharge a firearm in a manner
contrary to the provisions of this section.
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10  LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business.  The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit.  The fees
shall be paid into the general revenue fund of the county or municipality.  The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state.  Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18
(F), the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the
state.  The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only
within the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 137.11  POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties,
a law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or
dangerous ordnance, a security officer employed by a board of education or
governing body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty
pursuant to that contract of employment, or any other person who has written
authorization from the board of education or governing body of a school to
convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance into a school safety zone or to
possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in a school safety zone and who
conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance in accordance with
that authorization;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
this division (B)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is carrying a valid concealed handgun license or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the State Board of Education
prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall impose upon
the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s probationary driver’s
license, restricted license, driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver’s license that
then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4) and shall
deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type during the
period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this state, the
court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident operating
privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A), (B)
§ 137.12  POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.13  CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   (a)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. §
2923.125 shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has
been issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30
days after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the licensee also carries a valid license when the licensee is in actual
possession of a concealed handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change
in the licensee’s residence address to the sheriff who issued the license
within 45 days after that change.
         (b)   If a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as the result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose and if the licensee is transporting or has a loaded handgun
in the motor vehicle at that time, the licensee shall promptly inform any law
enforcement officer who approaches the vehicle while stopped that the licensee
has been issued a concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently
possesses or has a loaded handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard
or fail to comply with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while
the motor vehicle is stopped, knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle
while stopped, or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight
after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped
and before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly have contact with the loaded
handgun by touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in
violation of R.C. § 2923.16(E), after any law enforcement officer begins
approaching the licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
Additionally, if a licensee is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34 and if the licensee is transporting
or has a loaded handgun in the commercial motor vehicle at that time, the
licensee shall promptly inform the employee of the unit who approaches the
vehicle while stopped that the licensee has been issued a concealed handgun
license and that the licensee currently possesses or has a loaded handgun.
         (c)   If a licensee is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and if
the licensee is carrying a concealed handgun at the time the officer
approaches, the licensee shall promptly inform any law enforcement officer who
approaches the licensee while stopped that the licensee has been issued a
concealed handgun license and that the licensee currently is carrying a
concealed handgun; the licensee shall not knowingly disregard or fail to comply
with lawful orders of a law enforcement officer given while the licensee is
stopped or knowingly fail to keep the licensee’s hands in plain sight after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the licensee while stopped and
before the officer leaves, unless directed otherwise by a law enforcement
officer; and the licensee shall not knowingly remove, attempt to remove, grasp,
or hold the loaded handgun or knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by
touching it with the licensee’s hands or fingers, in any manner in violation of
R.C. § 2923.12(B), after any law enforcement officer begins approaching the
licensee while stopped and before the officer leaves.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.   If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
day-care center, type A family day-care home, or type B family day-care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family day-care home or
type B family day-care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass in
violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who carries a
license issued under that section.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who carries a license issued under that section. For purposes of
reciprocity with other states, a qualified retired peace officer who possesses
a retired peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(b) of this section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued
pursuant to division (B)(6)(c) of this section shall be considered to be a
licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL.  Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: "Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises."
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.14  DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer's serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138:  DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Trafficking in controlled substances; gift of marihuana
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Pseudoephedrine sales
   
138.19   Prohibition on the use, possession, and sale of synthetic cannabinoids
and other synthetic drugs
   
138.20   Sale of pure caffeine product
Statutory reference:
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981 et seq.
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples,  see R.C. § 2925.52
   Driver’s license suspension after certain drug convictions, see R.C.
§4510.07
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG DEPENDENT PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3- methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH. The resin or a preparation of the resin contained in marijuana,
whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid
distillate form. (Ord. 4-2020, passed 7-28-20)
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIJUANA. All parts of a plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or
not; the seeds of a plant of that type; the resin extracted from a part of a
plant of that type; and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of a plant of that type or of its seeds or resin. MARIJUANA does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks,
oils or cake made from the seeds of the plant, or any other compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks,
except the resin extracted from the mature stalks, fiber, oil or cake, or the
sterilized seed of the plant that is incapable of germination; except that it
does not include hashish. (Ord. 4-2020, passed 7-28-20)
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)   A person who has been issued a certificate of registration as a
registered barber under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist’s license, hair
designer’s license, manicurist’s license, esthetician’s license, natural hair
stylist’s license, advanced cosmetologist’s license, advanced hair designer’s
license, advanced manicurist’s license, advanced esthetician’s license,
advanced natural hair stylist’s license, cosmetology instructor’s license, hair
design instructor’s license, manicurist instructor’s license, esthetics
instructor’s license, natural hair style instructor’s license, independent
contractor’s license, or tanning facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist or school psychologist under
R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 4736;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug  of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal offense is
committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the State Board of Education prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or not any
instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the school is
being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal offense
is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C.§ 2925.01) (`94 Code, § 513.01)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96)
§ 138.02  TRAFFICKING IN CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES; GIFT OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Sell or offer to sell a controlled substance or a controlled
substance analog;
      (2)   Prepare for shipment, ship, transport, deliver, prepare for
distribution, or distribute a controlled substance or a controlled substance
analog, when the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
controlled substance or a controlled substance analog is intended for sale or
resale by the offender or another person.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
      (2)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
      (3)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the “Federal Food, Drug
and Cosmetic Act” (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended), and is sold, offered
for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or administered for that purpose in accordance
with that Act.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of the
following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this
section, trafficking in controlled substances is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the offense
involves a gift of 20 grams or less of marihuana, trafficking in marihuana is a
minor misdemeanor upon a first offense and a misdemeanor of the third degree
upon a subsequent offense. If the offense involves a gift of 20 grams or less
of marihuana and if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, trafficking in marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of trafficking in marihuana and shall be
punished under division (C)(2) of this section. The offender is not guilty of
trafficking in a fentanyl-related compound and shall not be charged with,
convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9) for trafficking in a
fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of trafficking in a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.03(C)(9).
   (D)   As used in this section, DRUG includes any substance that is
represented to be a drug.
(R.C. § 2925.03(A) - (C), (I)) (`94 Code, § 513.02)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-
13-96)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug trafficking offenses, see R.C. § 2925.03(C)
§ 138.03  DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01.
            DRUG TREATMENT PROGRAM. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2929.01.
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is not on community control or
post-release control and is a person acting in good faith who seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical assistance for
that overdose, or a person who is the subject of another person seeking or
obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)
(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted, or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense if all of the
following apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession, or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog that would be the basis of
the offense was obtained as a result of the qualified individual seeking the
medical assistance or experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance.
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional.
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(g) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person is found to be in violation of any community control
sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following, the court
shall first consider ordering the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or mitigating the penalty specified
in R.C. § 2929.13, 2929.15, or 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, whichever is applicable, after which the court has the
discretion either to order the person’s participation or continued
participation in a drug treatment program or to impose the penalty with the
mitigating factor specified in any of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that overdose or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (d)   If a person is found to be in violation of any post-release
control sanction and if the violation is a result of either of the following,
the court or the parole board shall first consider ordering the person’s
participation or continued participation in a drug treatment program or
mitigating the penalty specified in R.C. § 2929.141 or 2967.28, whichever is
applicable, after which the court or the parole board has the discretion either
to order the person’s participation or continued participation in a drug
treatment program or to impose the penalty with the mitigating factor specified
in either of those applicable sections:
            1.   Seeking or obtaining medical assistance in good faith for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose;
            2.   Experiencing a drug overdose and seeking medical assistance
for that emergency or being the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose as described in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section.
         (e)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1.   Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section for a minor drug possession offense;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division;
            4.   Limit, modify, or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (f)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (g)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996,” 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)  (`94 Code, § 513.03)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04  POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree.  If the offender previously
has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)  (`94 Code, § 513.04) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 138.05  PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))  (`94 Code, § 513.05)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed
8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 138.06  ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (2) or (3), or a substantially similar municipal ordinance, to the extent
and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person's criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person's
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))  (Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-96) Penalty,
see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07  ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree.  If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)  (`94 Code, § 513.07)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 138.08  ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))  (`94 Code, § 513.08)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-
96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09  FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.10  NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card.  The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address.  The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card.  The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction.  The person shall maintain the cards at the
person's business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws.  The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning:  “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food.  Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21.  Do not inhale contents. 
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person's business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))  (`94 Code, § 513.11)
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET, and HIGHWAY have
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11  LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section.  The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney's receipt of the
report.  The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court.  Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused's analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances.  The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused's
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial.  If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused's analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney.  In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
similar municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation.  Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51) 
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.12  COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))  (`94 Code, § 513.13)  (Am. Ord. 20-96, passed 8-13-
96) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.13  USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness, or purity of, a controlled substance.
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to division (D)(2) of this section, no person shall
knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)  (`94 Code, § 513.12)  Penalty, see §
130.99
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of this section.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation division (H) of this section, the court may suspend for not
more than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit. However, if the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
or the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the
offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction
imposed for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court immediately
shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.14  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))  (`94 Code, § 513.09)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.  If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.  If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C)) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 138.15  POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person's profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale.  No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division
(A) of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person's possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))  (`94 Code, § 513.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.  If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E)) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C), (D)
§ 138.16  CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 138.17  UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a removable windshield placard, temporary removable windshield
placard, or license plates under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does
not meet any of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person's ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
   Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18  PSEUDOEPHEDRINE SALES.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. §  2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.19  PROHIBITION ON THE USE, POSSESSION, AND SALE OF SYNTHETIC
CANNABINOIDS AND OTHER SYNTHETIC DRUGS.
   (A)   The following terms shall have the following meanings, unless the
context clearly indicates that a different meaning is intended:
      (1)   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS.  Any material, compound, mixture, or
preparation containing any detectable quantity of synthetically produced
cannabinoids, their salts, isomers and salts of isomer, unless specifically
excepted elsewhere in this section.  Since nomenclature of these synthetically
produced cannabinoids are not internationally standardized and may continually
evolve, these structures or compounds of these structures shall be included
under this division, regardless of their specific numerical designation of
atomic positions covered, so long as it can be determined through some form of
scientific testing or analysis that the substance contains properties that fit
within one or more of the following categories:
         (a)   TETRAHYDROCANNABINOLS.  Meaning tetrahydrocannabinols naturally
contained in a plant of the genus Cannabis (cannabis plant), as well as
synthetic equivalents of the substances contained in the plant, or in the
resinous extractives of Cannabis, sp. and/or synthetic substances, derivatives,
and their isomers with similar chemical structure and pharmacological activity
such as the following: Delta 1 cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, and their
optical isomers Delta 6 cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, and their optical
isomers Delta 3.4 cis or trans tetrahydrocannabinol, and its optical isomers.
(Since nomenclature of these substances is not internationally standardized,
compounds of these structures, regardless of numerical designation of atomic
positions covered.)
         (b)   NAPHTHOYLINDOLES.  Any compound containing a 3-(1-naphthoyl)
indole structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring by
an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-methyl-2-
piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group, whether or not further
substituted in the indole ring to any extent and whether or not substituted in
the naphthyl ring to any extent.
         (c)   NAPHTHYLMETHYLINDOLES.  Any compound containing a 1H-indol-3-yl-
(1- naphthyl)methane structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the
indole ring by an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl,
1-(N-methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not
further substituted in the indole ring to any extent and whether or not
substituted in the naphthyl ring to any extent.
         (d)   NAPHTHOYLPYRROLES.  Any compound containing a 3-(1-
naphthoyl)pyrrole structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the
pyrrole ring by an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl,
cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl
group whether or not further substituted in the pyrrole ring to any extent,
whether or not substituted in the naphthyl ring to any extent.
         (e)   NAPHTHYLMETHYLINDENES.  Any compound containing a
naphthylideneindene structure with substitution at the 3-position of the indene
ring by an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-
methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not
further substituted in the indene ring to any extent, whether or not
substituted in the naphthyl ring to any extent.
         (f)   PHENYLACETYLINDOLES.  Any compound containing a 3-
phenylacetylindole structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the
indole ring by an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl,
1-(N-methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not
further substituted in the indole ring to any extent, whether or not
substituted in the phenyl ring to any extent.
         (g)   CYCLOHEXYLPHENOLS.  Any compound containing a 2-(3-
hydroxycyclohexyl)phenol structure with substitution at the 5-position of the
phenolic ring by an alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl,
cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-methyl-2-piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl
group whether or not substituted in the cyclohexyl ring to any extent.
         (h)   BENZOYLINDOLES.  Any compound containing a 3-(benzoyl)indole
structure with substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring by an
alkyl, haloalkyl, alkenyl, cycloalkylmethyl, cycloalkylethyl, 1-(N-methyl-2-
piperidinyl)methyl or 2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl group whether or not further
substituted in the indole ring to any extent and whether or not substituted in
the phenyl ring to any extent.
         (i)   2,3-Dihydro-5-methyl-3-(4-morpholinylmethyl)pyrrolo[1,2,3-de]-
1,4-benzoxazin- 6-yl]-1-napthalenylmethanone.  Some trade or other names: WIN
55,212-2.
         (j)   Dibenzopyrans including but not limited to (6aR,10aR)-9-
(hydroxymethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-6a,7,10,10a-
tetrahydrobenzo[c]chromen-1-ol.  Some trade or other names: HU-210, JWH-051,
JWH-139, JWH-161, JWH-229 & JWH-359.
            These products include, but are not limited to being contained in
preparations such as incense, potpourri, plant fertilizers, insect repellant
and are marketed with brand names including but not limited to K2, K3, K4,
Spice and Spike.
      (2)   SUBSTITUTED CATHINONES.  Any compound (except bupropion), mixture,
or preparation structurally derived from 2-aminopropan-1-one by substitution at
the 1-position with either phenyl, naphthyl, or thiophene ring systems, whether
or not the compound is modified in any of the following ways, that is to say,
         (a)   By substitution in the ring system to any extent with alkyl,
alkylenedioxy, alkoxy, haloalkyl, hydroxyl, or halide substituents, whether or
not further substituted in the ring system by one or more other univalent
substituents;
         (b)   By substitution at the 3-position with an acyclic alkyl
substituent;
         (c)   By substitution at the 2-amino nitrogen atom with alkyl,
dialkyl, benzyl, or methoxybenzyl groups, or by inclusion of the 2-amino
nitrogen atom in a cyclic structure.
         These include but are not limited to 3,4-Methylenedipxypyrovalerone
(MDPV), 4-methylmethcathinone (mephedrone, 4-MMC), 4-fluoromethcathinone
(flephedrone), 3,4-methylenedioxymethcathinone (methylone), butylone, and
naphyrone. These compounds are often found in a class of novelty products
commonly sold as "bath salts" these substances are sold with trade names
including but not limited to MDPK, Magic, Super Coke, PV, POSH, Cloud 9, Ivory
Wave, Ocean, Charge Plus, White Lightning, Scarface, Hurricane Charlie, Vanilla
Sky, Bonzai Grow, Blue Silk, Serenity Now, Lovey Dovey, Euphoria, Aura, Red
Dove and White Dove.
      (3)   MANUFACTURE.  The production, preparation, propagation,
compounding, conversion or processing of synthetic cannabinoids or synthetic
drugs, either directly or indirectly, by extraction from substances of natural
origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, and includes any
packaging or repackaging of synthetic cannabinoids or synthetic drugs or
labeling of its container, except that this term does not include the
preparation, compounding, packaging or labeling of synthetic cannabinoids or
synthetic drugs as an incident to lawful research, teaching or chemical
analysis and not for sale.
      (4)   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership or association, or any other entity.
      (5)   POSSESSION.  Possession may be either actual or constructive:
         (a)   Actual possession means exercising physical dominion.
         (b)   Constructive possession may be inferred if the defendant has
intent and capacity to maintain control and dominion over the cannabinoids,
synthetic drug or drug paraphernalia.
      (6)   SALE.  Delivery, barter, exchange, transfer, or gift, or offer
thereof, and each transaction of those natures made by any person, whether as
principal, proprietor, agent, servant, or employee.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, to sell, give, exchange,
manufacture, or otherwise distribute to any persons any product containing the
substances included in the definition of synthetic cannabinoids or substituted
cathinones.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, to knowingly, or under any
circumstances where one reasonably should know, to display for sale or possess
with intent to distribute any product containing the substances included in the
definition of synthetic cannabinoids or substituted cathinones.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent
to use, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into the human body any product
containing the substances included in the definition of synthetic cannabinoids
or substituted cathinones.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using, possessing, or
selling synthetic cannabinoids or other synthetic drugs, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(Ord. 17-2011, passed 6-28-11)
§ 138.20  SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
      
152.   MOBILE HOME PARKS AND HOUSE TRAILERS
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Adoption of Standard Codes
   
150.01   Ohio Basic Building Code and Council of American Building Officials
Building Code
   
150.02   National Electrical Code
Local Building Regulations
   
150.15   Plan and statement required
   
150.16   Permit required
   
150.17   General authority of state and county building departments
   
150.18   Prevention of violations
   
150.19   Chimneys
   
150.20   Fire limits
   
150.21   Gas connections
   
150.22   Moving of buildings
   
150.23   Numbering of buildings
   
150.24   Roofing
   
150.25   Unsafe buildings
   
150.26   Licensing and regulations of demolition of structures
 
   
150.99   Penalty
ADOPTION OF STANDARDS CODES
§ 150.01  OHIO BASIC BUILDING CODE AND COUNCIL OF AMERICAN BUILDING OFFICIALS
BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Current edition adopted.  Pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, there is hereby
adopted by and for the village that certain code known as "The One-Family, Two-
Family and Three-Family Dwelling Regulations of Richland County, Ohio,"
sometimes referred to as the Ohio Basic Building Code and the Council of
American Building Officials Code, the current editions, save and except such
portions thereof as may be hereinafter amended or deleted.
(`94 Code, § 1321.01)
   (B)   Purpose.  The purpose of the Ohio Basic Building Code and the Council
of American Building Officials Code, as adopted in division (A) above of this
section, is to establish construction and material specifications for
nonindustrialized one, two and three family dwellings and appurtenant
structures in the village. 
(`94 Code, § 1321.02)
   (C)   File and distribution copies.  At least one copy of the Ohio Basic
Building Code and the Council of American Building Officials Code, as adopted
in division (A) of this section, is available for inspection by the public at
the village office. 
(`94 Code, § 1321.03)
   (D)   Conflicts of laws.  In the event of a conflict between a provision of
the Ohio Basic Building Code and the Council of American Building Officials
Code, as adopted in division (A) of this section and a provision of any other
technical code adopted by the village, the stricter standard shall prevail. In
the event of a conflict between a provision of such Code and state law,
including the Ohio Fire Code, the state law shall prevail. In the event of a
conflict between a provision of such Code and a village ordinance, resolution,
rule or regulation, the village ordinance, resolution, rule or regulation shall
prevail. 
(`94 Code, § 1321.04)  (Am. Ord. 11-2000, passed 5-23-00)
§ 150.02  NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Current edition adopted.  Pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, there is hereby
adopted by and for the village that certain code known as the National
Electrical Code, the current edition, designated NFPA and sponsored by the
National Fire Protection Association, save and except such portions thereof as
may be hereinafter amended or deleted. 
(`94 Code, § 1323.01)
   (B)   Purpose.  The purpose of the National Electrical Code, as adopted in
division (A) above, is to establish rules and regulations governing electrical
materials and installations in dwelling units of one, two and three-family
dwellings, mobile homes and multifamily dwellings and commercial and industrial
occupancy in the village. 
(`94 Code, § 1323.02)
   (C)   File and distribution copies.  At least one copy of the National
Electrical Code, as adopted in division (A), is available for inspection by the
public at the village office. 
(`94 Code, § 1323.03)
   (D)   Conflicts of laws.  In the event of a conflict between a provision of
the National Electrical Code, as adopted in division (A), and a provision of
any other technical code adopted by the village, the stricter standard shall
prevail. In the event of a conflict between a provision of such Code and state
law, including the Ohio Basic Building Code, The Council of American Building
Officials Code and the Ohio Fire Code, the state law shall prevail. In the
event of a conflict between a provision of such Code and a village ordinance,
resolution, rule or regulation, the stricter standard shall prevail. 
(`94 Code, § 1323.04)  (Am. Ord. 12-2000, passed 5-23-00) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
LOCAL BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.15  PLAN AND STATEMENT REQUIRED.
   No wall, structure, building or part thereof shall hereafter be built,
erected, enlarged or altered in the village until duplicate copies of a plan of
the proposed work, together with a statement of the materials to be used, have
been submitted to the State or the County Building Department, according to
their respective areas of jurisdiction. If such plan is in accordance with this
Building Code, the same shall be approved by such agencies by the members
endorsing their approval thereon and signing their names thereto. Thereupon,
the agency shall issue a permit for the proposed construction. A pencil
drawing, plan or blueprint shall be submitted showing the size of the proposed
structure and the character or kind of materials to be used therein, including
a plan view, elevation view, cross section view, and electrical, heating,
venting and air conditioning plan, all to scale. In the case of all commercial
and industrial plans and blueprints, such must be sealed by an architect or
professional engineer, registered with the State of Ohio.
(`94 Code, § 1341.01)  (Am. Ord. 13-2000, passed 5-23-00)
§ 150.16  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall erect a wall, structure or building or part thereof in the
village without first obtaining a permit therefor from the State or the County
Building Department, according to their respective areas of jurisdiction. Any
wall, structure or building or part thereof erected prior to the issuance of
such permit or not constructed in conformity with this Building Code shall be
removed.
(`94 Code, § 1341.02) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.17  GENERAL AUTHORITY OF STATE AND COUNTY DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The State and the County Building Departments are hereby authorized
and directed to enforce all the provisions of this Building Code. 
(`94 Code, § 1341.05)
   (B)   Any member of the State or the County Building Department, according
to their respective areas of jurisdiction, or any person authorized thereby,
shall have the right to enter in or upon any building site or premises, any new
or unoccupied building or any building alleged to be unsafe, a menace to life
or limb, damaged or menaced by fire. No person shall interfere with such
members or authorized persons in the performance of their duties as such
members or authorized persons. 
(`94 Code, § 1341.03)
§ 150.18  PREVENTION OF VIOLATIONS.
   The State or the County Building Department, according to their respective
areas of jurisdiction, shall have the power in extremely urgent cases to call
upon any police officer to prevent a violation of any of the provisions of this
Building Code by any willful act. Such police officer called upon shall, for
the time being, be subject to the orders of such agency. After stationed at
such building to enforce the orders of the agency, he or she shall remain at
such building until relieved by further orders or a substitute officer.
(`94 Code, § 1341.04)
§ 150.19  CHIMNEYS.
   The walls of all chimneys, whether the fuel used is wood, coal, gas or oil,
shall be built of brick, concrete, stone or hollow tile, according to the
following specifications:
   (A)   Brick Chimneys.  Brick chimneys shall be built of solid brick or may
be built of perforated radial brick, manufactured and adapted to withstand high
temperatures, but no other hollow brick shall be used. The walls of brick
chimneys shall be not less than 3¾ inches thick. All brickwork shall be laid in
spread mortar with all joints push filled. Exposed joints, both inside and
outside, shall be struck smooth. No plaster lining is permitted.
   (B)   Concrete Chimneys. Concrete chimneys cast in place shall be suitably
reinforced both vertically and horizontally. The walls shall be not less than
3¾ inches thick.
   (C)   Concrete Blocks. Concrete blocks used in chimney construction shall
have walls not less than  3¾ inches thick. Blocks enclosing more than one flue
shall have suitable reinforcement completely encircling the blocks and well
embedded in them. All joints shall be struck smooth.
   (D)   Rubble Stone Chimneys. Rubble stone chimneys shall be not less than 12
inches thick with all joints struck smooth.
   (E)   Hollow Building Tile.
      (1)   Hollow building tile shall not be used for walls of isolated or
independent chimneys, but may be used for chimneys built in connection with
exterior tile walls not exceeding two stories in height, in which case the
chimney walls shall be not less than eight inches thick. The outer eight inches
of the building wall may serve as the side wall of the chimney, but the
remaining chimney walls shall be constructed of two layers of four-inch tile
set with broken joints or may be built of four inches of solid brick work. In
either case, the walls or the chimney shall be securely built into the wall of
the building. No chimney shall be corbelled from a hollow tiled wall.
      (2)   Chimneys shall be built at least three feet above the flat roofs
and two feet above the ridge of peaked roofs and shall be properly capped with
terra cotta, concrete, cast iron or other approved substance or material, but
no cap or coping shall decrease the required flue area.
      (3)   Chimneys shall not rest upon or be carried by wooden floors, beams
or brackets or be hung from wooden rafters. Iron brackets or stirrups attached
to wooden construction shall not be used to support chimneys. In frame
buildings, chimneys shall always be built from the ground up or rest on the
basement floor.
      (4)   Chimneys shall be built upon masonry or concrete foundations
properly proportioned to carry the weight imposed without danger of settling or
cracking. The foundation of an exterior chimney shall start below the frost
line.
(`94 Code, § 1343.01) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.20  FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Establishment.  The fire limits of the village are hereby established
as follows: north on Sandusky Street from the Square to the north side of Lot
32 and extending 200 feet each way from the centerline of such street;
southeast from the Square on Trux Street to the east side of Lot 9 and
extending 200 feet each way from the centerline of Trux Street; south on
Plymouth Street to the north line of Lot 23 and extending 200 feet each way
from the centerline of Plymouth Street; west on Broadway from the Square to New
Street and extending 200 feet each way from the centerline of Broadway; and on
all sides of the Public Square a distance of 200 feet back from the curb lines
of the Square.
(`94 Code, § 1345.01)
   (B)   Frame or wooden structures prohibited; exception; roofs.  Except as
otherwise provided in this section, no frame or wooden building or structure
shall hereafter be built within the fire limits of the village. All roofs
placed upon such buildings or structures shall be constructed of noncombustible
materials. Temporary one-story frame buildings for the use of builders are
permitted. No frame building shall be moved from without to within the fire
limits.
(`94 Code, § 1345.02)
   (C)   Wall and roof construction.  Every building hereafter erected, altered
or enlarged within the fire limits of the village shall be enclosed on all
sides with not less than eight-inch walls, constructed wholly of stone, brick,
hollow tile, concrete, steel or other noncombustible three-hour fire resistive
material, and shall have the roof thereof and sides of all roof structures,
including dormer windows, covered with noncombustible materials.
(`94 Code, § 1345.03)
   (D)   Removal of existing frame buildings. Any existing frame building
within the fire limits which is hereafter damaged by fire, windstorm, decay or
otherwise, to the extent of 40% of its value, exclusive of its basement and
foundations, if any, shall not be repaired or rebuilt, but shall be removed.
(`94 Code, § 1345.04) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.21  GAS CONNECTIONS.
   Gas connections to stoves and portable heating devices shall be made by
rigid pipes.
(`94 Code, § 1347.01) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.22  MOVING OF BUILDINGS.
   No person shall move a building in or into the village without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the Administrator. The Administrator shall not
issue such a permit if, in his or her judgment, the proposed new location of
the building would materially increase the fire hazard of the surrounding
buildings.
(`94 Code, § 1351.01) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.23  NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Numbers required.  All houses and buildings on any street, lane, alley
or avenue or fronting any public ground, of the village, shall be numbered in
accordance with the street numbering plats of the village, as the same shall be
made and prepared by the Village Engineer.
(`94 Code, § 1353.01)
   (B)   Plan of numbering.  All streets running in an easterly and westerly
direction shall be numbered eastwardly and westwardly, beginning at Sandusky
Street, north of the Public Square and at Plymouth Street, south of the Public
Square. All streets running in a northerly and southerly direction shall be
numbered northwardly and southwardly, beginning at Main Street, west of the
Public Square, and at Trux Street, east of the Public Square. When going away
from public square, even numbers should be on the right side and odd numbers on
the left side of the street. The first number shall be ten.
(`94 Code, § 1353.02)  (Ord. 21-84, passed 12-11-84)
   (C)   Allotment of numbers.  There shall be a separate number for each store
room or residence on Sandusky Street, from the Public Square north to the
corporation line; on Plymouth Street, from the Public Square south to Greenlawn
Cemetery; on West Main Street, from the Public Square west to the corporation
line; and on all sides of the Public Square. In all other parts of the village,
the residences shall be numbered consecutively, allowing a number for each
vacant lot of sufficient size to place a dwelling thereon.
(`94 Code, § 1353.03)
   (D)   Assignment of numbers to lots; certificates.  When the Village
Engineer has prepared a numbering plat in accordance with this chapter, the
Village Fiscal Officer shall assign the proper numbers to every parcel of land
in the village fronting on any of the public grounds and ways and shall issue a
certificate upon the request of any property owner, agent, lessee or occupant,
certifying the proper street number so assigned to such lot or parcel of land.
(`94 Code, § 1353.04)
   (E)   Size, type and location of numbers.  The numbers used on all houses
and buildings shall be not less than two inches by three inches in size for
each digit, or on plates not less than three inches by six inches in size, and
the numbers so placed shall be distinct and legible and shall be placed in a
conspicuous place immediately above the main entrance to every house or
business room and in full view of the street or thoroughfare. However, nothing
in this section shall prevent any person from numbering his or her own house or
building in any distinct, legible and ornamental manner.
(`94 Code, § 1353.05)
   (F)   Second floor numbers.  In all cases where there is an occupied room
upstairs, there may be a one-half number assigned to such room.
(`94 Code, § 1353.06)
   (G)   Assignment of numbers to new lots and buildings.  The Village Fiscal
Officer shall, from time to time as new lots are formed and new buildings
erected, see that proper house numbers are assigned to such new lots and that
proper numbers are placed on such new buildings.
(`94 Code, § 1353.07)
   (H)   Defacing or substituting numbers.  No person shall, in any manner,
interfere with, take down, alter or deface any number on any house or building,
or put up or retain a number in an improper manner, or substitute any number on
his or her house or building for the number assigned thereto as specified
herein.
(`94 Code, § 1353.08) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.24  ROOFING.
   Roofing material used in the village, outside the fire limits, may be either
slate, tile, asbestos, metal, composition shingle, composition roll roofing or
wood shingle. However, when composition shingles are used, they shall weigh not
less than 225 pounds per square. When composition roll roofing is used, it
shall weigh not less than 50 pounds per square. When wood shingles are used,
they shall be of red shingle, 100% edge grain, 100% clear and sap free. Before
roofing any building with noncombustible roofing, any wood shingle thereon
shall be first removed. No noncombustible roof covering shall be laid over a
wood shingle roof.
(`94 Code, § 1355.01) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 150.25  UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   The State, County and Village Building Departments, within their
respective areas of jurisdiction, are hereby authorized to inspect all
buildings and structures in the village. If, in the judgment of the inspector,
any building is unsafe or in a condition or situation dangerous to the safety
of persons residing therein or passing by the same, or liable to injure an
adjacent building, the State, County or Village Building Department shall
notify the owner or the agent of the owner of the building to have the same
removed or properly repaired within a specified time after a written notice is
served upon such owner or agent by such agency. If the owner or agent, after
the time specified in such notice, fails or neglects to comply with the terms
of such notice, the agency shall proceed forthwith to have such building
demolished or so much thereof as may be necessary to protect the safety of
persons or property. The cost of demolishing such building shall be paid out of
the general fund of the village and a statement thereof presented to such owner
or agent. If such costs are not repaid within ten days, the Village Solicitor
shall forthwith institute suit against such owner or agent for the amount
thereof.
   (B)   In addition to division (A) of this section, the Village Administrator
may follow the procedures of R.C. §§ 715.26 and 715.261 for the removal and
repair of insecure, unsafe or structurally defective buildings or others
structures.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any, owner, person in charge or occupant of a building, other
structure or premises aggrieved by an order issued pursuant to the provisions
of this section may, within ten days of the service of the order, appeal such
order to the Village Planning Commission, hereafter Commission. By filing a
notice of appeal with the Village Administrator accompanied by a fee of $30,
which fee shall be refunded if the Administrator’s decision is wholly reversed.
The Administrator shall transmit the file relating to the order to the
Commission, which order shall be defended by the Administrator. The Commission
shall serve written notice, by personal service or by certified mail, upon the
appellant of the time, place and date of the hearing upon appeal. The
Commission shall proceed to hear the appeal within 30 days after notice of
appeal has been filed by the appellant, providing that notice of the date of
hearing shall be served upon the appellant not less than five days prior to the
time such hearing is commenced. Failure of the appellant to appear at the time
and place set for the hearing shall be deemed to be a withdrawal of the appeal
and the Commission shall affirm the order of the Administrator.
      (2)   Provided further than the Commission shall have authority to grant
one continuance of the date of hearing, upon application of the appellant, for
good cause shown, which continuance shall not exceed 20 days. Such granting of
any additional time to perform work required by order of the Administrator
shall be conditioned upon the posting of performance bond by the applicant. The
purpose of the bond shall be to ensure that the work is performed in a timely
manner and in compliance with the Administrator’s Order. The bond shall be
posted within ten calendar days of the granting of additional time. Failure to
post bond shall result in the appeal being denied and the demolition order
being in full effect. The amount of the bond shall be in cash, money order, or
certified check and shall be in the following amounts:
   Bond Schedule
   Residential: $15,000 bond or $5,000 cash or certified check
   Commercial: $50,000 bond or $20,000 cash or certified check
   Industrial: $50,000 bond or $20,000 cash or certified check
      (3)   If the appealing party fails to perform, the bond shall be
forfeited and applied as necessary to secure or raze the structure. If the
repairs are completed to the satisfaction of the Administrator, the bond or
remaining balance thereof shall be returned to the appealing party.
      (4)   In case an appeal from an order of the Fire Chief, appeal shall be
taken to the State Fire Marshall according to law.
(`94 Code, § 1357.01)  (Am. Ord. 2-98, passed 2-24-98; Am. Ord. 12-2009, passed
5-26-09; Am. Ord. 6-2013, passed 3-26-13; Am. Ord. 14-2013, passed 6-25-13)
§ 150.26  LICENSING AND REGULATIONS OF DEMOLITION OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   License and permit required.  No person, except a general contractor
licensed by the Village Administrator nor any employee of such person, shall
demolish or undertake to demolish or represent himself as having the capability
of demolishing any building or other structure or part thereof, unless he has
been licensed as a demolition contractor, and no person shall demolish or
undertake to demolish any building or other structure or part thereof, unless
he has secured, or caused to be secured, a permit for such demolition.
   (B)   Application; fees.  Application for a demolition contractor's license
shall be made to the Village Administrator. The fee upon original application
for a demolition contractor's license shall be $25, which license shall be
valid for a period of one year from its date of issue. If such license is
renewed prior to its expiration the renewal fee shall be $20.
   (C)   Bond.  At the time of making application for a demolition permit, a
demolition contractor applicant shall have on file with the Village
Administrator a bond in the penal sum of $2,000, approved as to form by the
Village Solicitor, indemnifying the village for all liability arising by reason
of the acts of the demolition contractor or his employees while in the pursuit
of his business under a demolition permit issued by the Village Administrator.
   (D)   Insurance; additional bonds. 
      (1)   Prior to engaging in any demolition operations a demolition
contractor shall have on file with the Village Administrator evidence that he
has current comprehensive liability insurance of not less than the following
limits:
         (a)   Bodily injury liability: each person, $300,000; each accident,
$500,000.
         (b)   Property damage liability: $500,000.
         (c)   Automobile: each person, $300,000; each accident, $500,000.
      (2)   In case of a demolition contract awarded by the village under the
provisions of this section, the contractor shall also post satisfactory and
sufficient performance, work, labor and materials bonds. As a condition of the
issuance of any permit for a specific demolition project the village may
require a performance bond indemnifying the village for defects in performance
within one year after completion of the work covered by the permit.
   (E)   Demolition permit.
      (1)   Application.  Application by any person for a demolition permit
shall be filed with the Village Administrator. Such application shall describe
the demolition to be accomplished and shall designate the manner, method and
equipment to be used. Application shall be made by the owner or the contractor
employed to conduct such demolition, or the agent of either; unless made by the
owner the applicant shall evidence his authority to make application by means
of a duly verified affidavit of the owner. The application shall indicate the
date upon which demolition is intended to begin and the probable date of
completion thereof.
      (2)   Issuance of permit.  Prior to issuance of the permit the Village
Administrator shall determine that the proposed method of demolition is in
accordance with good engineering practices and that the contractor or owner has
the necessary and proper means and equipment to accomplish the demolition in
accordance with the manner, method and equipment specified in the application.
      (3)   Fees.  The fees for a demolition permit shall be at the rate of $25
per structure for a four-day period. Beyond the four-day period there shall be
an additional charge of $10 for each day until the final inspection certificate
can be issued.
   (F)   Notice and prosecution of work.  The contractor or owner shall give
the Village Administrator 24 hours notice before commencing demolition work
under any permit. He shall carry out the work in an orderly manner and without
unnecessary delay.
   (G)   Regulation of demolition and general contractors. In undertaking any
work of demolition as defined in this chapter any general or demolition
contractor during his entire employment under a contract, whether public or
private, shall be responsible and liable for:
      (1)   Faithful compliance and adherence to all federal, state and local
laws and regulations relating to safe demolition and construction processes and
procedures including equipment, apparel and individual protective device
regulations.
      (2)   Securing all necessary licenses, permits, easements and rights-of-
way.
      (3)   Early and adequate notice to the village and utility companies for
appropriate disconnections and the safeguarding thereof.
      (4)   Early and adequate notice to adjoining property owners.
      (5)   The protection and safeguarding of adjacent property and public
passersby.
      (6)   Damages resulting from the extension of explosion waves into
adjacent property.
      (7)   Minimization of air pollution and contamination through wetting,
soaking and other dust and debris settling techniques.
      (8)   Installation, erection and maintenance of barricades, warning
lights and signals, pedestrian cautions and walkways in accordance with safety
codes, regulations and ordinances. When necessary for the public protection,
the contractor shall employ guards and watchmen.
      (9)   Unless the contract or orders of the village provide otherwise,
total removal of the structure to the actual building and property line.
      (10)   Provision of proper drainage in the subsoil conditions.
Percolation shall be provided in basement slabs by breaking or by drilling
holes through the slabs, approximately six feet on center in all directions and
connecting drain tile into existing storms where necessary for proper drainage.
All floor slabs, under which a pit, well, cistern, tank or void exists, shall
be broken or removed. All drains not removed shall be sealed with masonry or
with precast clay or concrete stoppers.
      (11)   Complete removal from the demolition site of all organic
materials, including wood, plastics, old plaster, floor tile and similar
rubble. Masonry, stove concrete, tile bank-run gravel and compacted earth are
permitted fill materials.
      (12)   Adjoining and party walls, as follows:
         (a)   If one of two back to back or adjoining walls, each of which is
built along a common property line of two different ownerships, is required by
order to be demolished with the rest of the structure, the contractor shall be
responsible for the adjacent or adjoining property wall for repair or defects
occasioned by the contractor, to the extent that the same shall be repaired or
reconditioned as needed with suitable construction materials and procedures to
insure that such remaining wall is as free from defects, and safety, fire and
health hazards as it would have been had the wall not been demolished.
         (b)   Where the back to back or adjoining wall of the structure to be
demolished is not required to be demolished, the contractor shall insure that
such wall does not create or constitute a health, fire or safety hazard. When
such wall exposes a variety of materials such as brick, stone, plaster or
block, a cement or latex paint specifically prepared for masonry walls shall be
applied to such exposed surface; provided that other means may be utilized when
prior approval of the means has been granted by the Village Administrator.
         (c)   The contractor shall insure that party walls are structurally
sound and do not create or constitute a health, fire or safety hazard. When
such party wall exposes a variety of materials such as brick, stone, plaster or
block, a cement or latex paint specifically prepare for masonry walls shall be
applied to such exposed surface; provided that other means may be utilized when
prior approval of the means has been granted by the Village Administrator.
      (13)   Insuring that any remaining walls, whether adjoining, party or
back to back, have all openings, crevices, gaps, fissures, joist slots and the
like plugged and carefully tamped or sealed with some suitable material against
the weather, elements, fowl, rodents and other wildlife, so as to render them
free of health, safety and fire hazards.
      (14)   Maintaining established property lines and grades at the original
lines and grades. Backfill when necessary shall include structures suitable to
retain the original grades. Where vertical walls have been removed from stone
retaining walls, such retaining walls may be retained if suitable backfill is
provided to furnish sufficient side load to retain the original support of the
property. The premises shall be graded to prevent water from unnecessarily
draining onto adjacent premises.
      (15)   Construction of damaged or destroyed curbs, gutters and sidewalks
with new four-inch concrete improvements in accordance with village
specifications.
      (16)   Filing with the Village Administrator a sketch plan of any
foundations, walls or other pertinent data relating to the site which have been
buried by backfill.
      (17)   Continuity of service to adjacent property by the replacement or
repair of overhangs, cornices, downspouts, etc., which overhang from adjacent
property and which have been removed or damaged by the contractor.
      (18)   The replacement and repair of damaged or destroyed curb boxes and
utility entrance service.
   (H)   Completion.  Demolition of any building or structure under any permit
shall not be considered completed until:
      (1)   The contractor or resident-owner has removed all lumber, rubble and
other building or structural materials and debris and all demolition equipment
from the graded premises, or, at the owner's request, has piled it neatly upon
the premises, in such a manner as not to constitute a public nuisance, hazard
or possible rodent harborage;
      (2)   The contractor or resident-owner has broken and removed all
foundations or slabs to not less than two feet below the ground surface, and
has filled all basements, trenches or other depressions with not less than two
feet of compacted earth, or as otherwise provided herein, graded neatly to the
existing established grade level, unless a building permit has been issued for
a structure which will make use of the foundation or slab remaining after
demolition; and
      (3)   The Village Administrator has issued to the contractor or resident-
owner a certificate of final inspection, which certificate shall issue when the
provisions of this section have been satisfied.
   (I)   Non-completion.  No person shall fail to comply with the provisions of
division (H)(1) and (H)(2) of this section within three days after a structure
or building has been demolished.
   (J)   Permit compliance.  No person shall demolish a building or structure
other than in accordance with the method of demolition set forth in an approved
application for demolition permit.
   (K)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter which require the holding of a
demolition contractor's license, the filing of bonds and evidence of liability
insurance coverage shall not be applicable to the owner of any parcel of land
desiring to demolish any building or structure which is situated upon the
parcel of land being occupied as the residence of such owner, and when such
demolition is to be executed personally by such owner; and the permit fees
established in division (E)(3) of this section shall be reduced 50% for such
resident-owner applicant.
      (2)   Such resident-owner shall otherwise comply with all of the
requirements of this section as though he were a duly licensed general or
demolition contractor.
   (L)   Violations.
      (1)   No person or firm shall violate any division of this section, or
any order made in pursuance thereof, or obstruct or interfere with the
execution thereof, or willfully or illegally omit or fail to obey such order.
      (2)   No officer of a corporation who has authority over the matter
involved in the violation of division (L)(1) of this section shall permit the
violation of such division.
   (M)   Penalty.
      (1)   Each day of any violation of any of the provisions of this section
shall be punishable as a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalties provided for violations of the
provisions of this section, the Village Administrator shall have the right to
revoke any contractor's license or any license or permit issued under this
section.  Appeal may be had to Village Planning Commission in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2506.
      (3)   Whoever violates any provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(Ord. 26-2017, passed 12-27-17)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of this
title or any condition of a permit issued thereunder, for which no penalty is
otherwise provided, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
more than $100 for each offense. The imposition of a penalty shall not excuse
the violation or permit it to continue. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each ten days that a prohibited condition is maintained, unless
otherwise provided. The application of the penalty provided herein shall not
preclude the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or the application of
any other equitable remedy. 
(`94 Code, § 1341.99)
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of the
National Electrical Code, as adopted in §
150.02, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $100
for each offense. The imposition of a penalty shall not excuse the violation or
permit it to continue. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each ten
days that a prohibited condition is maintained, unless otherwise provided.  The
application of the penalty provided herein shall not preclude the enforced
removal of prohibited conditions or the application of any other equitable
remedy. 
(`94 Code, § 1323.99)  (Am. Ord. 12-2000, passed 5-23-00)
CHAPTER 151:  FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Methods of reducing flood loss
   
151.05   Lands to which this chapter apply
   
151.06   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
151.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.08   Interpretation
   
151.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.10   Definitions
Administration
   
151.20   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.21   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.22   Floodplain development permits
   
151.23   Application required
   
151.24   Review and approval of a floodplain development permit application
   
151.25   Inspections
   
151.26   Post-construction certifications required
   
151.27   Revoking a floodplain development permit
   
151.28   Exemption from filing a development permit
   
151.29   Map maintenance activities
   
151.30   Data use and flood map interpretation
   
151.31   Substantial damage determinations
Use and Development Standards for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   Use and development standards
   
151.41   Use regulations
   
151.42   Water and wastewater systems
   
151.43   Subdivisions and large developments
   
151.44   Residential structures
   
151.45   Nonresidential structures
   
151.46   Accessory structures
   
151.47   Recreational vehicles
   
151.48   Above ground gas or liquid storage tanks
   
151.49   Assurance of flood carrying capacity
Appeals and Variances
   
151.60   Appeals Board established
   
151.61   Powers and duties
   
151.62   Appeals
   
151.63   Variances
   
151.64   Procedure at hearings
   
151.65   Appeal to the court
Enforcement
   
151.75   Compliance required
   
151.76   Notice of violation
   
151.77   Violations and penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01  AUTHORIZATION.
   Article XVIII, Section 3, of the Ohio Constitution grants municipalities the
legal authority to adopt land use and control measures for promoting the
health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The village has special flood hazard areas that are subject to periodic
inundation which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base. 
Additionally, structures that are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise protected from flood damage also contribute to the flood loss.  In
order to minimize the threat of such damages and to achieve the purposes
hereinafter set forth, these regulations are adopted.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare, and to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the proper use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to protect property and
minimize future flood blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions;
   (H)   Minimize the impact of development on adjacent properties within and
near flood prone areas;
   (I)   Ensure that the flood storage and conveyance functions of the
floodplain are maintained;
   (J)   Minimize the impact of development on the natural, beneficial values
of the floodplain;
   (K)   Prevent floodplain uses that are either hazardous or environmentally
incompatible; and
   (L)   Meet community participation requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.04  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSS.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, these regulations include methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water hazards, or which result in damaging increases in
flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel flood
waters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging, excavating, and other
development which may increase flood damage; and,
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers, which
will unnaturally divert flood, waters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.05  LANDS TO WHICH THESE REGULATIONS APPLY.
   These regulations shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the village as identified in §
151.06, including any additional areas of special flood hazard annexed by the
village.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.06  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   For the purposes of these regulations, the following studies and/or maps are
adopted:
   (A)   Flood Insurance Study Richland County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas and
Flood Insurance Rate Map Richland County, Ohio and Incorporated Areas both
effective April 4, 2011.
   (B)   Other studies and/or maps, which may be relied upon for establishment
of the flood protection elevation, delineation of the 100-year floodplain,
floodways or delineation of other areas of special flood hazard, include: NONE.
   (C)   Any hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis authored by a
registered professional engineer in the State of Ohio which has been approved
by the village as required by §
151.43,  Subdivisions and Large Scale Developments.  Any revisions to the
aforementioned maps and/or studies are hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of these regulations.  Such maps and/or studies are on file at the
Plymouth Municipal Building, 48 W. Broadway St., Plymouth, Ohio.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.07  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   These regulations are not intended to repeal any existing ordinances
including subdivision regulations, zoning or building codes. In the event of a
conflict between these regulations and any other ordinance, the more
restrictive shall be followed. These regulations shall not impair any deed
restriction covenant or easement but the land subject to such interests shall
also be governed by the regulations.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.08  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations, all provisions
shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and,
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.  Where a provision of these regulations may be in conflict with
a state or federal law, such state or federal law shall take precedence over
these regulations.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.09  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damage. These regulations
shall not create liability on the part of the village, any officer or employee
thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damage that
results from reliance on these regulations or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.10  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in these
regulations shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in
common usage and to give these regulations the most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure.
   APPEAL.  A request for review of the floodplain administrator's
interpretation of any provision of these regulations or a request for a
variance.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.  The base flood may also be referred to as the 1% chance annual
flood or 100 year flood.
   BASE (100-YEAR) FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The water surface elevation of the
base flood in relation to a specified datum, usually the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum of 1929 or the North  American Vertical Datum of 1988, and
usually expressed in feet mean sea level (MSL). In Zone AO areas, the base
flood elevation is the natural grade elevation plus the depth number (from one
to three feet).
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ENCLOSURE BELOW THE LOWEST FLOOR.  See LOWEST FLOOR.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT).  Issued by President Carter
in 1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted
in or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas,
unless there is no practicable alternative.
   FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA).  The agency with the overall
responsibility for administering the National Flood Insurance Program.
   FILL.  A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters, and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  Usually the initial map, produced by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency, or U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, for a community depicting approximate special flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has delineated the areas of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RISK ZONES.  Zone designations on FHBMs and FIRMs that
indicate the magnitude of the flood hazard in specific areas of a community.
Following are the zone definitions:
      (1)   Zone A:  Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; base flood elevations are not determined.
      (2)   Zones A1-30 and Zone AE:  Special flood hazard areas inundated by
the 100-year flood; base flood elevations are determined.
      (3)   Zone AO:  Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; with flood depths of one to three feet (usually sheet flow on sloping
terrain); average depths are determined.
      (4)   Zone AH:  Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood; flood depths of one to three feet (usually areas of ponding); base flood
elevations are determined.
      (5)   Zone A99:  Special flood hazard areas inundated by the 100-year
flood to be protected from the 100-year flood by a federal flood protection
system under construction; no base flood elevations are determined.
      (6)   Zone B and Zone X (shaded):  Areas of 500-year flood; areas subject
to the 100-year flood with average depths of less than one foot or with
contributing drainage area less than one square mile; and areas protected by
levees from the base flood.
      (7)   Zone C and Zone X (unshaded):  Areas determined to be outside the
500-year floodplain.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  The official report in which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development has provided flood profiles, floodway boundaries (sometimes shown
on flood boundary and floodway maps), and the water surface elevations of the
base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE).  The base flood elevation plus two feet of
freeboard. In areas where no base flood elevations exist from any authoritative
source, the flood protection elevation can be historical flood elevations, or
base flood elevations determined and/or approved by the floodplain
administrator.
   FLOODWAY.  A floodway is the channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that have been reserved in order to pass the base flood
discharge. A floodway is typically determined through a hydraulic and
hydrologic engineering analysis such that the cumulative increase in the water
surface elevation of the base flood discharge is no more than a designated
height. In no case shall the designated height be more than one foot at any
point within the community.
   The floodway is an extremely hazardous area, and is usually characterized by
any of the following: Moderate to high velocity flood waters, high potential
for debris and projectile impacts, and moderate to high erosion forces.
   FREEBOARD.  A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams, and the
hydrologic effect of urbanization in a watershed.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listings on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district; or
      (3)   Individually listed on the State of Ohio's inventory of historic
places maintained by the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
      (4)   Individually listed on the inventory of historic places maintained
by the village's historic preservation program, which program is certified by
the Ohio Historic Preservation Office.
   HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING ANALYSIS.  An analysis performed by a
professional engineer, registered in the State of Ohio, in accordance with
standard engineering practices as accepted by FEMA, used to determine flood
elevations and/or floodway boundaries.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC).  A letter of map change is an official FEMA
determination, by letter, to amend or revise effective flood insurance rate
maps, flood boundary and floodway maps, and flood insurance studies.  LOMCs are
broken down into the following categories:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA).  A revision based on technical data
showing that a property was incorrectly included in a designated special flood
hazard area. A LOMA amends the current effective flood insurance rate map and
establishes that a specific property is not located in a special flood hazard
area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR).  A revision based on technical data
that, usually due to manmade changes, shows changes to flood zones, flood
elevations, floodplain and floodway delineations, and planimetric features. One
common type of LOMR, a LOMR-F, is a determination concerning whether a
structure or parcel has been elevated by fill above the base flood elevation
and is, therefore, excluded from the special flood hazard area.
      (3)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR).  A formal review and
comment by FEMA as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum
National Flood Insurance Program floodplain management criteria. A CLOMR does
not amend or revise effective flood insurance rate maps, flood boundary and
floodway maps, or flood insurance studies.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement) of a structure.  This definition excludes an "enclosure below the
lowest floor" which is an unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than  a
basement area, provided that such enclosure is built in accordance with the
applicable design requirements specified in these regulations for enclosures
below the lowest floor.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.  For the purposes of
these regulations, a manufactured home includes manufactured homes and mobile
homes as defined in R.C. Chapter 3733.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.  As specified in the Ohio Administrative Code 3701-
27-01, means any tract of land upon which three or more manufactured homes,
used for habitation are parked, either free of charge or for revenue purposes,
and includes any roadway, building, structure, vehicle, or enclosure used or
intended for use as part of the facilities of the park. A tract of land that is
subdivided and the individual lots are not for rent or rented, but are for sale
or sold for the purpose of installation of manufactured homes on the lots, is
not a manufactured home park, even though three or more manufactured homes are
parked thereon, if the roadways are dedicated to the local government
authority.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP).  The NFIP is a federal program
enabling property owners in participating communities to purchase insurance
protection against losses from flooding.  This insurance is designed to provide
an insurance alternative to disaster assistance to meet the escalating costs of
repairing damage to buildings and their contents caused by floods.
Participation in the NFIP is based on an agreement between local communities
and the federal government that states if a community will adopt and enforce
floodplain management regulations to reduce future flood risks to all
development in special flood hazard areas, the federal government will make
flood insurance available within the community as a financial protection
against flood loss.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the "start of construction"
commenced on or after the initial effective date of the village's Flood
Prevention Regulation, June 8, 1999, and includes any subsequent improvements
to such structures.
   PERSON.  Includes any individual or group of individuals, corporation,
partnership, association, or any other entity, including state and local
governments and agencies. An agency is further defined in R.C. § 111.15 as any
governmental entity of the state and includes, but is not limited to, any
board, department, division, commission, bureau, society, council, institution,
state college or university, community college district, technical college
district, or state community college.  AGENCY does not include the general
assembly, the controlling board, the adjutant general's department, or any
court.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is built on a single chassis, 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection,
designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck,
and designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ARCHITECT.  A person registered to engage in the
practice of architecture under the provisions of R.C. §§ 4703.01 to 4703.19.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER.  A person registered as a professional
engineer under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL SURVEYOR.  A person registered as a professional
surveyor under R.C. Chapter 4733.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  Also known as AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD, it
is the land in the floodplain subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in
any given year.  Special flood hazard areas are designated by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency on flood insurance rate maps, flood insurance
studies, flood boundary and floodway maps and flood hazard boundary maps as
Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-30, and A99.  Special flood hazard areas may also refer
to areas that are flood prone and designated from other federal, state or local
sources of data including but not limited to historical flood information
reflecting high water marks, previous flood inundation areas, and flood prone
soils associated with a watercourse.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  The date the building permit was issued, provided
the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building, manufactured home, or gas or
liquid storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement.  This term includes structures, which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include:
      (1)   Any improvement to a structure that is considered "new
construction,"
      (2)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified prior to the application for a development permit by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (3)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration would not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure".
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the standards of these regulations
consistent with the variance conditions herein.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.20  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Village Administrator is hereby appointed to administer and implement
these regulations and is referred to herein as the Floodplain Administrator.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.21  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Evaluate applications for permits to develop in special flood hazard
areas.
   (B)   Interpret floodplain boundaries and provide flood hazard and flood
protection elevation information.
   (C)   Issue permits to develop in special flood hazard areas when the
provisions of these regulations have been met, or refuse to issue the same in
the event of noncompliance.
   (D)   Inspect buildings and lands to determine whether any violations of
these regulations have been committed.
   (E)   Make and permanently keep all records for public inspection necessary
for the administration of these regulations including flood insurance rate
maps, letters of map amendment and revision, records of issuance and denial of
permits to develop in special flood hazard areas, determinations of whether
development is in or out of special flood hazard areas for the purpose of
issuing floodplain development permits, elevation certificates, variances, and
records of enforcement actions taken for violations of these regulations.
   (F)   Enforce the provisions of these regulations.
   (G)   Provide information, testimony, or other evidence as needed during
variance hearings.
   (H)   Coordinate map maintenance activities and FEMA follow-up.
   (I)   Conduct substantial damage determinations to determine whether
existing structures, damaged from any source and in special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, must meet the development standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.22  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to begin construction or other
development activity including but not limited to filling; grading;
construction; alteration, remodeling, or expanding any structure; or alteration
of any watercourse wholly within, partially within or in contact with any
identified special flood hazard area, as established in §
151.06, until a floodplain development permit is obtained from the Floodplain
Administrator.  Such floodplain development permit shall show that the proposed
development activity is in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
No such permit shall be issued by the Floodplain Administrator until the
requirements of these regulations have been met.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.23  APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   An application for a floodplain development permit shall be required for all
development activities located wholly within, partially within, or in contact
with an identified special flood hazard area. Such application shall be made by
the owner of the property or his or her authorized agent, herein referred to as
the applicant, prior to the actual commencement of such construction on a form
furnished for that purpose. Where it is unclear whether a development site is
in a special flood hazard area, the Floodplain Administrator may require an
application for a floodplain development permit to determine the development's
location. Such applications shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Site plans drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions,
and topography of the area in question; the location of existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities, and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Elevation of the existing, natural ground where structures are
proposed.
   (C)   Elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, of all proposed
structures.
   (D)   Such other material and information as may be requested by the
Floodplain Administrator to determine conformance with, and provide enforcement
of these regulations.
   (E)   Technical analyses conducted by the appropriate design professional
registered in the State of Ohio and submitted with an application for a
floodplain development permit when applicable:
      (1)   Floodproofing certification for non-residential floodproofed
structure as required in §
151.45.
      (2)   Certification that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor of a
structure not meeting the design requirements of §
151.44(E) are designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces.
      (3)   Description of any watercourse alteration or relocation that the
flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be diminished, and
maintenance assurances as required in §
151.49(C).
      (4)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis demonstrating that the
cumulative effect of proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot in special flood hazard areas
where the Federal Emergency Management Agency has provided base flood
elevations but no floodway as required by §
151.49(B).
      (5)   A hydrologic and hydraulic engineering analysis showing impact of
any development on flood heights in an identified floodway as required by §
151.49(A).
      (6)   Generation of base flood elevation(s) for subdivision and large-
scale developments as required by §
151.43.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.24  REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Review.
      (1)   After receipt of a complete application, the Floodplain
Administrator shall review the application to ensure that the standards of
these regulations have been met. No floodplain development permit application
shall be reviewed until all information required in §
151.23 has been received by the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   The Floodplain Administrator shall review all floodplain
development permit applications to assure that all necessary permits have been
received from those federal, state or local governmental agencies from which
prior approval is required. The applicant shall be responsible for obtaining
such permits as required including permits issued by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers under Section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act and Section 404 of the
Clean Water Act, and the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency under Section 401
of the Clean Water Act.
   (B)   Approval.  Within 30 days after the receipt of a complete application,
the Floodplain Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the
application. If an application is approved, a floodplain development permit
shall be issued.  All floodplain development permits shall be conditional upon
the commencement of work within one year.  A floodplain development permit
shall expire one year after issuance unless the permitted activity has been
substantially begun and is thereafter pursued to completion.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.25  INSPECTIONS.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall make periodic inspections at appropriate
times throughout the period of construction in order to monitor compliance with
permit conditions.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.26  POST-CONSTRUCTION CERTIFICATIONS REQUIRED.
   The following as-built certifications are required after a floodplain
development permit has been issued:
   (A)   For new or substantially improved residential structures, or
nonresidential structures that have been elevated, the applicant shall have a
Federal Emergency Management Agency Elevation Certificate completed by a
registered surveyor to record as-built elevation data. For elevated structures
in Zone A and Zone AO areas without a base flood elevation, the elevation
certificate may be completed by the property owner or owner's representative.
   (B)   For all development activities subject to the standards of §
151.29(A), a letter of map revision.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.27  REVOKING A FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be revocable, if among other things,
the actual development activity does not conform to the terms of the
application and permit granted thereon. In the event of the revocation of a
permit, an appeal may be taken to the Appeals Board in accordance with §§
151.60 through
151.65.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.28  EXEMPTION FROM FILING A DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a floodplain development permit shall not be
required for:
      (1)   Maintenance work such as roofing, painting, and basement sealing,
or for small nonstructural development activities (except for filling and
grading) valued at less than $5,000.
      (2)   Development activities in an existing or proposed manufactured home
park that are under the authority of the Ohio Department of Health and subject
to the flood damage reduction provisions of the Ohio Administrative Code
Section 3701.
      (3)   Major utility facilities permitted by the Ohio Power Siting Board
under R.C. Chapter 4906.
      (4)   Hazardous waste disposal facilities permitted by the Hazardous
Waste Siting Board under R.C. Chapter 3734.
      (5)   Development activities undertaken by a federal agency and which are
subject to Federal Executive Order 11988 - Floodplain Management.
   (B)   Any proposed action exempt from filing for a floodplain development
permit is also exempt from the standards of these regulations.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.29  MAP MAINTENANCE ACTIVITIES.
   To meet National Flood Insurance Program minimum requirements to have flood
data reviewed and approved by FEMA, and to ensure that the village's flood
maps, studies and other data identified in §
151.06 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data, the following map maintenance
activities are identified:
   (A)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
      (1)   For all development proposals that impact floodway delineations or
base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that technical data
reflecting such changes be submitted to FEMA within six months of the date such
information becomes available. These development proposals include:
         (a)   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
         (b)   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts; and
         (d)   Subdivision or large scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
151.43.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the applicant to have technical data,
required in accordance with division (A) of this section, prepared in a format
required for a conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision,
and submitted to FEMA.  Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions
shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional letter of
map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for:
         (a)   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; and
         (b)   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation by
more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations but
no floodway.
      (4)   Floodplain development permits issued by the Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditioned upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (A)(1) of
this section.
   (B)   Right to submit new technical data.  The Floodplain Administrator may
request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that does
not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations, such
as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include appropriate
supporting documentation made in writing by the Mayor, and may be submitted at
any time.
   (C)   Annexation/detachment.  Upon occurrence, the Floodplain Administrator
shall notify FEMA in writing whenever the boundaries of the village have been
modified by annexation or the community has assumed authority over an area, or
no longer has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations
for a particular area.  In order that the village's flood insurance rate map
accurately represent the village's boundaries, include within such notification
a copy of a map of the village suitable for reproduction, clearly showing the
new corporate limits or the new area for which the village has assumed or
relinquished floodplain management regulatory authority.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.30  DATA USE AND FLOOD MAP INTERPRETATION.
   The following guidelines shall apply to the use and interpretation of maps
and other data showing areas of special flood hazard:
   (A)   In areas where FEMA has not identified special flood hazard areas, or
in FEMA identified special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation and
floodway data have not been identified, the Floodplain Administrator shall
review and reasonably utilize any other flood hazard data available from a
federal, state, or other source.
   (B)   Base flood elevations and floodway boundaries produced on FEMA flood
maps and studies shall take precedence over base flood elevations and floodway
boundaries by any other source that reflect a reduced floodway width and/or
lower base flood elevations. Other sources of data, showing increased base
flood elevations and/or larger floodway areas than are shown on FEMA flood maps
and studies, shall be reasonably used by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   When preliminary flood insurance rate maps and/or flood insurance
study have been provided by FEMA:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a letter of final determination by the FEMA,
the preliminary flood hazard data shall be used and replace all previously
existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA for the purposes of administering
these regulations.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a letter of final determination by FEMA,
the use of preliminary flood hazard data shall only be required where no base
flood elevations and/or floodway areas exist or where the preliminary base
flood elevations or floodway area exceed the base flood elevations and/or
floodway widths in existing flood hazard data provided from FEMA. Such
preliminary data may be subject to change and/or appeal to FEMA.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall make interpretations, where needed,
as to the exact location of the flood boundaries and areas of special flood
hazard.  A person contesting the determination of the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in §§
151.60 through
151.65.
   (E)   Where a map boundary showing an area of special flood hazard and field
elevations disagree, the base flood elevations or flood protection elevations
(as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table, established high water
marks, etc.) shall prevail.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.31  SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Damages to structures may result from a variety of causes including
flood, tornado, wind, heavy snow, fire, etc.  After such a damage event, the
Floodplain Administrator shall:
      (1)   Determine whether damaged structures are located in special flood
hazard areas;
      (2)   Conduct substantial damage determinations for damaged structures
located in special flood hazard areas; and
      (3)   Make reasonable attempt to notify owners of substantially damaged
structures of the need to obtain a floodplain development permit prior to
repair, rehabilitation, or reconstruction.
   (B)   Additionally, the Floodplain Administrator may implement other
measures to assist with the substantial damage determination and subsequent
repair process.  These measures include issuing press releases, public service
announcements, and other public information materials related to the floodplain
development permits and repair of damaged structures; coordinating with other
federal, state, and local agencies to assist with substantial damage
determinations; providing owners of damaged structures materials and other
information related to the proper repair of damaged structures in special flood
hazard areas; and assist owners of substantially damaged structures with
increased cost of compliance insurance claims.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40  USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following use and development standards apply to development wholly
within, partially within, or in contact with any special flood hazard area as
established in §§
151.06 or
151.30(A).
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.41  USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.  All uses not otherwise prohibited in this section or
any other applicable land use regulation adopted by the village are allowed
provided they meet the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   Private water supply systems in all special flood hazard areas
identified by FEMA, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3701.
      (2)   Infectious waste treatment facilities in all special flood hazard
areas, permitted under R.C. Chapter 3734.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.42  WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   The following standards apply to all water supply, sanitary sewerage and
waste disposal systems not otherwise regulated by the Ohio Revised Code:
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems;
   (B)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and,
   (C)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.43  SUBDIVISIONS AND LARGE DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage and are subject to all applicable standards in these
regulations;
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood damage; and
   (D)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (E)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data to
FEMA in §
151.29(A)(1)(d) when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is completed that
generates base flood elevations as required by division (D) of this section.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.44  RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting
from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy. 
Where a structure, including its foundation members, is elevated on fill to or
above the base flood elevation, the requirements for anchoring and construction
materials resistant to flood damage are satisfied.
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with methods and materials resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or elevated so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvement of any residential
structure, including manufactured homes, shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above the flood protection elevation. Where flood
protection elevation data are not available, the structure shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet above the highest
adjacent natural grade.
   (E)   New construction and substantial improvements, including manufactured
homes, that do not have basements and that are elevated to the flood protection
elevation using pilings, columns, posts, or solid foundation perimeter walls
with openings sufficient to allow unimpeded movement of flood waters may have
an enclosure below the lowest floor provided the enclosure meets the following
standards:
      (1)   Be used only for the parking of vehicles, building access, or
storage; and
      (2)   Be designed and certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters; or
      (3)   Have a minimum of two openings on different walls having a total
net area not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area,
and the bottom of all such openings being no higher than one foot above grade.
The openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or
devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.
   (F)   Manufactured homes shall be affixed to a permanent foundation and
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure
resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of
buoyancy. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors.
   (G)   Repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure and is the minimum necessary to
preserve the historic character and design of the structure, shall be exempt
from the development standards of this section.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.45  NONRESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non- residential structure shall meet the requirements of §
151.44(A) through (C) and (E) through (G).
   (B)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial or other non-residential structure shall either have the lowest
floor, including basement, elevated to or above the level of the flood
protection elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall meet all of the following standards:
      (1)   Be dry floodproofed so that the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water to the level of the flood
protection elevation;
      (2)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and,
      (3)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect,
through the use of a Federal Emergency Management Agency Floodproofing
Certificate, that the design and methods of construction are in accordance with
divisions (B)(1) and (2) of this section.
   (C)   Where flood protection elevation data are not available, the structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two feet
above the highest adjacent natural grade.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.46  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Relief to the elevation or dry floodproofing standards may be granted for
accessory structures containing no more than 600 square feet. Such structures
must meet the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be used for human habitation;
   (B)   They shall be constructed of flood resistant materials;
   (C)   They shall be constructed and placed on the lot to offer the minimum
resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
   (D)   They shall be firmly anchored to prevent flotation;
   (E)   Service facilities such as electrical and heating equipment shall be
elevated or floodproofed to or above the level of the flood protection
elevation; and
   (F)   They shall meet the opening requirements of §
151.44(E)(3).
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.47  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Recreational vehicles must meet at least one of the following standards:
   (A)   They shall not be located on sites in special flood hazard areas for
more than 180 days, or
   (B)   They must be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
   (C)   They must meet all standards of §
151.44.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.48  ABOVE GROUND GAS OR LIQUID STORAGE TANKS.
   All above ground gas or liquid storage tanks shall be anchored to prevent
flotation or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic
loads.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.49  ASSURANCE OF FLOOD CARRYING CAPACITY.
   Pursuant to the purpose and methods of reducing flood damage stated in these
regulations, the following additional standards are adopted to assure that the
reduction of the flood carrying capacity of watercourses is minimized:
   (A)   Development in floodways.
      (1)   In floodway areas, development shall cause no increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.  Prior to issuance of
a floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer,
demonstrating that the proposed development would not result in any increase in
the base flood elevation; or
      (2)   Development in floodway areas causing increases in the base flood
elevation may be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the
applicant:
         (a)   Meet the requirements to submit technical data in §
151.29(A);
         (b)   An evaluation of alternatives, which would not result in
increased base flood elevations and an explanation why these alternatives are
not feasible;
         (c)   Certification that no structures are located in areas that would
be impacted by the increased base flood elevation;
         (d)   Documentation of individual legal notices to all impacted
property owners within and outside the community, explaining the impact of the
proposed action on their property; and
         (e)   Concurrence of the Mayor and the Chief Executive Officer of any
other communities impacted by the proposed actions.
   (B)   Development in riverine areas with base flood elevations but no
floodways.
      (1)   In riverine special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA where
base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been designated,
the cumulative effect of any proposed development, when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development, shall not increase the base flood
elevation more than one foot at any point. Prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit, the applicant must submit a hydrologic and hydraulic
analysis, conducted by a registered professional engineer, demonstrating that
this standard has been met; or,
      (2)   Development in riverine special flood hazard areas identified by
FEMA where base flood elevation data are provided but no floodways have been
designated causing more than one foot increase in the base flood elevation may
be permitted provided all of the following are completed by the applicant:
         (a)   An evaluation of alternatives which would result in an increase
of one foot or less of the base flood elevation and an explanation why these
alternatives are not feasible; and
         (b)   Division (A)(2), items (a) and (c) through (e) of this section.
   (C)   Alterations of a watercourse.  For the purpose of these regulations, a
watercourse is altered when any change occurs within its banks. The extent of
the banks shall be established by a field determination of the "bankfull
stage."  The field determination of "bankfull stage" shall be based on methods
presented in Chapter 7 of the USDA Forest Service General Technical Report RM-
245, Stream Channel Reference Sites: An Illustrated Guide to Field Technique or
other applicable publication available from a federal, state, or other
authoritative source.  For all proposed developments that alter a watercourse,
the following standards apply:
      (1)   The bankfull flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse shall not be diminished. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit, the applicant must submit a description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of the
proposed development, and certification by a registered professional engineer
that the bankfull flood carrying capacity of the watercourse will not be
diminished.
      (2)   Adjacent communities, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the
Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Water, must be notified prior
to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse.  Evidence of such
notification must be submitted to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (3)   The applicant shall be responsible for providing the necessary
maintenance for the altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that
the flood carrying capacity will not be diminished. The Floodplain
Administrator may require the permit holder to enter into an agreement with the
village specifying the maintenance responsibilities. If an agreement is
required, it shall be made a condition of the floodplain development permit.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirements to submit technical data
in §
151.29(A)(1)(c) when an alteration of a watercourse results in the relocation
or elimination of the special flood hazard area, including the placement of
culverts.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
APPEALS AND VARIANCES
§ 151.60  APPEALS BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Council shall appoint an Appeals Board consisting of three resident
electors of the village.  The members shall serve four year terms after which
time they shall be reappointed or replaced by Council. Each member shall serve
until his or her successor is appointed.
   (B)   A chairperson shall be elected by the members of the Appeals Board. 
Meetings of the Appeals Board shall be held as needed and shall be held at the
call of the Chairperson, or in his absence, the Acting Chairperson. All
meetings of the Appeals Board shall be open to the public except that the Board
may deliberate in executive sessions as part of quasi-judicial hearings in
accordance with law. The Appeals Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question and shall keep records of
all official actions. Records of the Appeals Board shall be kept and filed in
the office of the Clerk of Council at the Plymouth Municipal Building, 48 W.
Broadway St., Plymouth, Ohio.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.61  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Appeals Board shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the administration or enforcement of these
regulations.
   (B)   Authorize variances in accordance with §
151.63.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.62  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person affected by any notice and order, or other official action
of the Floodplain Administrator may request and shall be granted a hearing on
the matter before the Appeals Board provided that such person shall file,
within ten days of the date of such notice and order, or other official action,
a brief statement of the grounds for such hearing or for the mitigation of any
item appearing on any order of the Floodplain Administrator's decision. Such
appeal shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and be filed with the
Floodplain Administrator. Upon receipt of the appeal, the Floodplain
Administrator shall transmit said notice and all pertinent information on which
the Floodplain Administrator's decision was made to the Appeals Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the notice of appeal, the Appeals Board shall fix a
reasonable time for the appeal, give notice in writing to parties in interest,
and decide the appeal within a reasonable time after it is submitted.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.63  VARIANCES.
   Any person believing that the use and development standards of these
regulations would result in unnecessary hardship may file an application for a
variance.  The Appeals Board shall have the power to authorize, in specific
cases, such variances from the standards of these regulations, not inconsistent
with federal regulations, as will not be contrary to the public interest where,
owning to special conditions of the lot or parcel, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of these regulations would result in unnecessary hardship.
   (A)   Application for a variance.
      (1)   Any owner, or agent thereof, of property for which a variance is
sought shall make an application for a variance by filing it with the
Floodplain Administrator, who upon receipt of the variance shall transmit it to
the Appeals Board.
      (2)   Such application at a minimum shall contain the following
information:  Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant; legal
description of the property, parcel map; description of the existing use;
description of the proposed use; location of the floodplain; description of the
variance sought; and reason for the variance request.
   (B)   Notice for public hearing.  The Appeals Board shall schedule and hold
a public hearing within 30 days after the receipt of an application for a
variance from the Floodplain Administrator. Prior to the hearing, a notice of
such hearing shall be given in one or more newspapers of general circulation in
the community at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Public hearing. 
      (1)   At such hearing the applicant shall present such statements and
evidence as the Appeals Board requires.  In considering such variance
applications, the Appeals Board shall consider and make findings of fact on all
evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified in other sections of
these regulations and the following factors:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage.
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community.
         (e)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
that are not subject to flooding or erosion damage.
         (f)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development.
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area.
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site.
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause.
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship due to the physical characteristics of the property.
Increased cost or inconvenience of meeting the requirements of these
regulations does not constitute an exceptional hardship to the applicant.
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights beyond that which is allowed in these regulations;
additional threats to public safety; extraordinary public expense, nuisances,
fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws.
         (d)   A determination that the structure or other development is
protected by methods to minimize flood damages.
         (e)   A determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
      (3)   Upon consideration of the above factors and the purposes of these
regulations, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances, as it deems necessary to further the purposes of these regulations.
   (D)   Other conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (2)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing items in divisions (C)(1)(a) to (k) of
this section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
      (3)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and the cost of flood insurance will
be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor
elevation.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.64  PROCEDURE AT HEARINGS.
   (A)   All testimony shall be given under oath.
   (B)   A complete record of the proceedings shall be kept, except
confidential deliberations of the Board, but including all documents presented
and a verbatim record of the testimony of all witnesses.
   (C)   The applicant shall proceed first to present evidence and testimony in
support of the appeal or variance.
   (D)   The administrator may present evidence or testimony in opposition to
the appeal or variance.
   (E)   All witnesses shall be subject to cross-examination by the adverse
party or their counsel.
   (F)   Evidence that is not admitted may be proffered and shall become part
of the record for appeal.
   (G)   The Board shall issue subpoenas upon written request for the
attendance of witnesses. A reasonable deposit to cover the cost of issuance and
service shall be collected in advance.
   (H)   The Board shall prepare conclusions of fact supporting its decision.
The decision may be announced at the conclusion of the hearing and thereafter
issued in writing or the decision may be issued in writing within a reasonable
time after the hearing.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.65  APPEAL TO THE COURT.
   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals Board may appeal such
decision to the respective Huron County or Richland County Court of Common
Pleas, as provided in R.C. Chapter 2506.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.75  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, repaired, extended, converted, enlarged or altered without full
compliance with the terms of these regulations and all other applicable
regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of these regulations,
unless specifically exempted from filing for a development permit as stated in
§
151.28.
   (B)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit shall be a violation
of these regulations and shall be punishable in accordance with §
151.77.
   (C)   Floodplain development permits issued on the basis of plans and
applications approved by the Floodplain Administrator authorize only the use,
and arrangement, set forth in such approved plans and applications or
amendments thereto. Use, arrangement, or construction contrary to that
authorized shall be deemed a violation of these regulations and punishable in
accordance with §
151.77.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.76  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the Floodplain Administrator determines that there has been a
violation of any provision of these regulations, he shall give notice of such
violation to the person responsible therefore and order compliance with these
regulations as hereinafter provided. Such notice and order shall:
   (A)   Be put in writing on an appropriate form;
   (B)   Include a list of violations, referring to the section or sections of
these regulations that have been violated, and order remedial action, which, if
taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of these regulations;
   (C)   Specify a reasonable time for performance;
   (D)   Advise the owner, operator, or occupant of the right to appeal;
   (E)   Be served on the owner, occupant, or agent in person. However, this
notice and order shall be deemed to be properly served upon the owner,
occupant, or agent if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to
the person's last known mailing address, residence, or place of business, and/
or a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the dwelling affected.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
§ 151.77  VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Violation of the provisions of these regulations or failure to comply with
any of its requirements shall be deemed to be a strict liability offense, and
shall constitute a fourth degree misdemeanor. Any person who violates these
regulations or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon
conviction thereof be fined or imprisoned as provided by the laws of the
village.  Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The
village shall prosecute any violation of these regulations in accordance with
the penalties stated herein.
(Ord. 7-2011, passed 3-8-11)
CHAPTER 152:  MOBILE HOME PARKS AND HOUSE TRAILERS
Section
Mobile Home Parks
   
152.20   Definitions
   
152.21   Permitted uses
   
152.22   Site development plans; additions to be in conformance
   
152.23   Location; grading
   
152.24   Minimum site and space sizes; density; occupancy
   
152.25   Clearance distances
   
152.26   Access drives; parking spaces; walkways and entrances
   
152.27   Utilities; utility lines and antennas
   
152.28   Garbage and rubbish collection; burning garbage
   
152.29   Pets and animals
   
152.30   Exposed ground surfaces
   
152.31   Signs
   
152.32   Anchors and tie-downs
   
152.33   Inspections
   
152.34   Fire protection; sanitary and health regulations
   
152.35   Nonconforming lots, lands and structures
   
152.36   Sale of mobile homes
House Trailers
   
152.50   House trailer and mobile home defined
   
152.51   Parking on streets
   
152.52   Use as accommodation for overnight guests; minimum lot and trailer
sizes
   
152.53   Connection to village utilities; deposit required
   
152.54   Occupancy permits; fee
   
152.55   Removal from sites
   
152.56   More than one trailer on same lot
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 152.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME.  A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the
following characteristics:
      (1)   It is designed for permanent occupancy and contains sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities,
with plumbing, sewer and electrical connections provided for attachment to
outside systems.
      (2)   It is designed to be transported, after fabrication, on its own
wheels, on detachable wheels or on a flatbed or other hauling device.
      (3)   It arrives furnished or unfurnished at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor arid
incidental unpacking and assembly operations.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  A plot of ground upon which mobile homes occupied for
dwelling or sleeping purposes are located.
(`94 Code, § 745.01)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72)
§ 152.21  PERMITTED USES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no part of any mobile home
park shall be used for nonresidential purposes, except such uses that are
required for the direct servicing and well-being of mobile home park residents
and for the management and maintenance of the park.
(`94 Code, § 745.02)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.22  SITE DEVELOPMENT PLANS; ADDITIONS TO BE IN CONFORMANCE.
   (A)   Prior to the issuance of a zoning certificate for a mobile home park,
or any portion thereof, a detailed site development plan shall be submitted to
the village and shall be approved upon a finding that all applicable
regulations are complied with.
   (B)   The plan shall be drawn to a legible scale, shall show the
topographical features of the lot, building placement, mobile home spaces,
activity areas and the planting and landscaping plan, and shall include a
circulation and parking plan, with appropriate engineering and construction
details.
   (C)   If development is to proceed in phases, a zoning certificate shall be
granted for only those phases meeting the regulations pertaining to the
detailed site development plan, bonding and other requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Detailed plans for any phase shall be accompanied by a general site
development plan which shall show surrounding land uses, recreation and open
space development, proposed street patterns and lot arrangement for the entire
area proposed for development as a mobile home park. The site development plan
shall show that a proper relationship does exist between access drives, service
roads, driveways and parking areas to encourage pedestrian and vehicular
safety.
   (E)   Additions to, or remodeling of, established facilities, such as
driveways, walkways, landscaping, fences, etc., shall conform to the approved
site development plan.
(`94 Code, §§ 745.03, 745.22)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.23  LOCATION; GRADING.
   The mobile home park shall be located on a well drained site, properly
graded to prevent erosion or the forming of stagnant water pools on the site
and in conformity with the drainage pattern for the area.
(`94 Code, § 745.04)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.24  MINIMUM SITE AND SPACE SIZES; DENSITY; OCCUPANCY.
   The minimum size of the site to be developed is ten acres. Each mobile home
space shall be a minimum of 5,000 square feet for each single unit and clearly
defined as to boundaries. The density of such development shall not exceed
eight mobile homes per acre of the total project site. Each home shall have a
minimum living area of 720 square feet and shall be occupied by not more than
two persons per bedroom.
(`94 Code, § 745.05)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.25  CLEARANCE DISTANCES.
   There shall be at least ten feet clearance between adjacent mobile homes,
including their structural additions, such as carports, pull-outs, patios, etc.
No mobile home or structural addition shall be closer than 20 feet from any
permanent existing residence outside the park, unless separated therefrom by a
natural buffer or artificial buffer six feet in height. Such buffer shall be
maintained and landscaped to provide an obscuring screen. The type, quantity
and planted height of materials used for buffering shall be shown on the site
development plan. No structure of any type shall be closer than 20 feet to any
property line bounding the park.
(`94 Code, § 745.06)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.26  ACCESS DRIVES; PARKING SPACES; WALKWAYS AND ENTRANCES.
   (A)   Access drives.  All mobile home spaces shall abut upon access drives
of not less than 25 feet in pavement width, which shall have unobstructed
access to a public thoroughfare. Paved off-access drive parking shall be
provided at the rate of at least two spaces per mobile home space. All access
drives and parking and service areas shall be paved with concrete, asphalt or
equivalent and shall conform to construction standards approved by the County
Engineer as adequate for the type of use proposed. 
(`94 Code, § 745.07)
   (B)   Walkways and skirting.  All mobile homes shall be fully skirted and
connected to common walks, to paved access drives or to paved driveways or
parking spaces connected to paved access drives. Such individual walks shall
have a minimum width of two feet. 
(`94 Code, § 745.12)
   (C)   Park entrances.  No entrance to a mobile home park shall be within 200
feet of an intersecting public street. 
(`94 Code, § 745.14)
   (D)   Lighting.  All common walks and drives shall be well lighted
throughout the night. 
(`94 Code, § 745.17)
   (E)   Extra parking spaces.  Parking spaces for boats, trailers, recreation
vehicles and extra vehicles shall be provided. Such vehicles shall not be
parked in mobile home drives or common access drives unless they are being
loaded or unloaded. 
(`94 Code, § 745.18)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.27  UTILITIES; UTILITY LINES AND ANTENNAS.
   (A)   The installation of all utilities, including electrical, street
lighting, sewage and waste disposal, water supply and plumbing systems, shall
comply with all applicable state and local codes and regulations. Every mobile
home shall be provided with proper connections to the village utility systems.
Tanks for bottled gas, fuel oil or other fuels shall be stored upon properly
secured mounts and shall be placed away from home entries and exits. 
(`94 Code, § 745.08)
   (B)   All utility lines shall be underground. There shall be one community
antenna situated in a corner away from the area of the homes. Cable television
(C.A.T.V.) is permissible when properly installed.  (`94 Code, § 745.19)  (Ord.
6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.28  GARBAGE AND RUBBISH COLLECTION; BURNING GARBAGE.
   (A)   Procedures and facilities for garbage and rubbish collection shall be
provided in accordance with state law or regulation. 
(`94 Code, § 745.09)
   (B)   No burning of trash, refuse or garbage is permitted in a mobile home
park. 
(`94 Code, § 745.20)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.29  PETS AND ANIMALS.
   No person shall permit a pet or animal to run at large or commit any
nuisance within the limits of any mobile home park.
(`94 Code, § 745.11)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.30  EXPOSED GROUND SURFACES.
   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every mobile home park shall be
paved, covered with stone, screenings or other solid material, or protected
with vegetation capable of preventing erosion, mud or objectionable dust.
(`94 Code, § 745.13)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.31  SIGNS.
   There shall be only one park sign which shall be not higher than eight feet
and adapted to the entrance of the park.
(`94 Code, § 745.15)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.32  ANCHORS AND TIE-DOWNS.
   Every mobile home shall have at least four anchors or tie-downs. Each anchor
or tie-down shall have a minimum tensile strength of 2,800 pounds.
(`94 Code, § 745.16)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.33  INSPECTIONS.
   A mobile home park and the registry of the occupants thereof shall be, at
all reasonable times, open for inspection by the village or its agents.
(`94 Code, § 745.21)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.34  FIRE PROTECTION; SANITARY AND HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each mobile home park shall be equipped at all times with adequate
fire extinguishing equipment as determined by the Fire Department and in
accordance with the Ohio Fire Code. 
(`94 Code, § 745.10)
   (B)   Conformity with state and village sanitary codes and health
regulations relative to the construction, drainage, safety, sanitation and
operation of mobile home parks is required, except when a provision of this
chapter establishes a higher or stricter standard. 
(`94 Code, § 745.23)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.35  NONCONFORMING LOTS, LANDS AND STRUCTURES.
   Nonconforming lots, lands and structures that were in operation prior to the
enactment of this chapter (Ordinance 6-72, passed May 2, 1972) shall not be
enlarged upon, extended or used as a basis for adding other structures, or for
land uses prohibited by this chapter. Nothing in this section shall be deemed
to prohibit the continued use of nonconforming lots, lands and structures in
operation prior to such enactment. However, if any such nonconforming use is
once abandoned, this chapter shall apply to any new or renewed use of the lot,
land or structure. A nonconforming lot, land or structure, the service or use
of which has been discontinued for two years shall be deemed to be abandoned.
(`94 Code, § 745.24)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.36  SALE OF MOBILE HOMES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the sale of a mobile
home located on a mobile home stand and connected to the pertinent utilities.
(`94 Code, § 745.25)  (Ord. 6-72, passed 5-2-72)
HOUSE TRAILERS
§ 152.50  HOUSE TRAILER AND MOBILE HOME DEFINED.
   As used in this chapter, HOUSE TRAILER and MOBILE HOME mean any self-
propelled vehicle so designed, constructed, reconstructed or added to as will
permit the use and occupancy thereof for human habitation when connected to
indicated utilities, whether resting on wheels, jacks, concrete blocks or other
temporary foundations, and used or so constructed as to permit its being used
as a conveyance upon the public streets and not designated as a "recreational
vehicle."
(`94 Code, § 1349.01)  (Ord. 13-71, passed 11-16-71)
§ 152.51  PARKING ON STREETS.
   No person shall park a house trailer at any one time within a 24-hour period
in or upon any street in the village for a longer period than six hours, nor
shall any person park such a vehicle thereon for any period of time between the
hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. of the following day, except by temporary
permit from the office of the Mayor.
(`94 Code, § 1349.02)  (Ord. 13-71, passed 11-16-71) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.52  USE AS ACCOMMODATION FOR OVERNIGHT GUESTS; MINIMUM LOT AND TRAILER
SIZES.
   No house trailer shall be used as a place of residence or an accommodation
for overnight guests unless such house trailer is situated by itself on a plot
of ground not less than 9,100 square feet in area, with a minimum front yard
setback of 25 feet. The minimum size of such house trailer shall be 12 feet in
width and 60 feet in length.
(`94 Code, § 1349.03)  (Ord. 13-71, passed 11-16-71) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.53  CONNECTION TO VILLAGE UTILITIES; DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each house trailer must be separately connected directly to the
village electrical system, the village water system and the village sewerage
system or a separate septic tank if a sewer line is not available.
   (B)   No house trailer shall be connected to village utilities until a
utility deposit is made with the Village Fiscal Officer in accordance with the
rates established for such deposit.
(`94 Code, § 1349.04)  (Ord. 13-71, passed 11-16-71) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.54  OCCUPANCY PERMITS; FEE.
   No house trailer shall be used or occupied as a place of human habitation
unless such house trailer meets the requirements of this chapter and the
inhabitants or users thereof first obtain a permit from the Mayor for such
purpose. An application for such a permit shall be signed by the applicant and
shall contain the name of the street and the street number of the premises
occupied and the name of the owner or responsible occupant of such premises,
together with a statement that such owner or occupant has given his or her
permission for such occupancy. The permit fee shall be $10.  The Mayor shall
issue such a permit after determining that the provisions of this chapter are
complied with in full.
(`94 Code, § 1349.05)  (Ord. 13-71, passed 11-16-71) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.55  REMOVAL FROM SITES.
   When a house trailer is removed from a site, it shall be replaced by a unit
which meets the standards set forth in this chapter. If such removed house
trailer does not meet such standards, it may not be relocated in the village.
(`94 Code, § 1349.06)  (Ord. 13-71, passed 11-16-71) 
Penalty, see § 150.99
§ 152.56  MORE THAN ONE TRAILER ON SAME LOT.
   When more than one house trailer is located on the same lot of ground, the
provisions of §
152.52 shall apply, except that the minimum yard setbacks shall be 20 feet on
the front yard, 15 feet on the rear yard, 15 feet on the side yard with entry
to such house trailer and five feet on the side yard without entry.
(`94 Code, § 1349.07)  (Ord. 9-70, passed 6-2-70)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Interpretation, application and purposes
   
153.002   Conflicts of law
   
153.003   Area of jurisdiction
   
153.004   Definitions
Preliminary Plats
   
153.015   Number of copies required; submission of copies
   
153.016   Public hearings; notice
   
153.017   Evaluation reports
   
153.018   Approval or denial
   
153.019   Time limitations
   
153.020   Preliminary plat map contents
Final Plats
   
153.035   Number of copies required; submission of copies
   
153.036   Review and approval
   
153.037   Notification of subdivider; recording
   
153.038   File copies
   
153.039   Time limitations
   
153.040   Final plat map contents
   
153.041   Final plat map platting detail
Design Standards
   
153.060   Streets
   
153.061   Blocks
   
153.062   Lots
   
153.063   Easements
Improvements
   
153.075   Conformity of improvements with agency specifications; completion of
improvements or bond required
   
153.076   Streets
   
153.077   Sidewalks
   
153.078   Water supply; fire hydrants
   
153.079   Sanitary sewerage systems
   
153.080   Storm sewerage systems; grading of lots
   
153.081   Other improvements
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.095   Responsibilities of Planning Commission and Administrator
   
153.096   Consultations of subdivider with village
   
153.097   Recording of plats; approval required
   
153.098   Sales prohibited prior to tentative approval
   
153.099   Issuance of permits
   
153.100   Withholding of public services
   
153.101   Inspection costs
   
153.102   Plat filing fee
   
153.103   Subdivisions of five lots or less
   
153.104   Building permit required; fee schedule
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  INTERPRETATION, APPLICATION AND PURPOSES.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of these
Subdivision Regulations (this chapter) shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare. Among other purposes, such provisions are intended to provide
permanently for a wholesome community environment, adequate municipal services
and safe streets to protect the public.
   (B)   These Subdivision Regulations shall not apply to any lot forming a
part of a subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective date of these
subdivision regulations.
(`94 Code, § 1121.01)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.002  CONFLICTS OF LAW.
   These Subdivision Regulations are not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul or
in any way impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or
ordinances, except those specifically repealed by these Subdivision
Regulations, or with private restrictions placed upon property by deed,
covenant or other private agreement, or with restrictive covenants running with
the land to which the village is a party. Where any of the provisions of these
Subdivision Regulations imposes a greater restriction on land than is imposed
or required by an existing provision of a law, ordinance, contract or deed, the
provision of these Subdivision Regulations shall prevail.
(`94 Code, § 1121.02)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.003  AREA OF JURISDICTION.
   These Subdivision Regulations shall apply within the corporate limits of the
village and in the unincorporated area lying within three miles of such
corporate limits, subject to limitations specified in R.C. § 711.09.
(`94 Code, § 1121.03)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.004  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR.  The Administrator of the village.
   BLOCK.  A parcel of land bounded on all sides by a street or streets.
   COUNCIL.  The Council of the village.
   COUNTY.  Huron County and Richland County, Ohio.
   COUNTY ENGINEER.  The Engineers of Huron and Richland Counties.
   CUL-DE-SAC.  See STREET.
   DEVELOPER.  An individual, group of individuals, organization or other legal
entity undertaking or contracting for construction of improvements on
subdivided land.
   EASEMENT.  A grant, by a property owner to an individual, group of
individuals, organization or other legal entity, for the use of a certain
parcel of land for a specified purpose.
   ENGINEER.  The Engineer of the village.
   IMPROVEMENTS.  Streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, sanitary and storm
sewers, water services and such other facilities as may be required for the
subdivision and development of land under these Subdivision Regulations.
   LOT.  A piece, parcel or tract of land separated from other parcels by lot
lines and having frontage on a public street. In addition:
      (1)   CORNER LOT.  A lot at the juncture of, and fronting upon, two or
more intersecting streets or upon two parts of the same street, such streets or
parts of the same forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. The point
of intersection of the street lot lines is the corner.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT.  Any lot other than a corner lot.
      (3)   LOT AREA.  The computed land area contained within the lot lines,
usually expressed in square feet or in acres and fractions thereof.
      (4)   LOT DEPTH.  The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
      (5)   LOT LINES.  the property lines bounding a lot.
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE.  The line separating a lot from the street on
which it abuts.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE.  The lot line opposite to, and most distant from,
the front lot line.
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any lot line other than a front or rear lot
line. A side lot line separating a lot from a street is a side street lot line.
A side lot line separating a lot from another lot is an interior side lot line.
      (6)   LOT SPLIT.  The division of a single parcel of land into at least
two, but not more than five, lots, either at the same time or over a period of
time.
      (7)   LOT WIDTH.  The mean horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at right angles to the depth of the lot.
   MAP.  A scaled drawing or reproduction thereof of a parcel of land or a
subdivision of land.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT MAP.  A final proposal for the subdivision of land,
presented in map form to the Planning Commission for approval, and which, if
approved, shall become the official recorded plat of that subdivision.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT MAP.  A tentative proposal for the subdivision of
land under these Subdivision Regulations, submitted in map form to the Planning
Commission for its consideration in accordance with the procedures specified in
these Subdivision Regulations.
      (3)   VICINITY MAP.  A small map identifying the location of a proposed
subdivision of land with reference to known points in the area around it.
   OWNER.  An individual, group of individuals, organization or any other legal
entity having sufficient proprietary interest in land sought to be subdivided
to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under these
Subdivision Regulations.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Planning Commission of the village.
   REGIONAL PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Planning Commissions of Huron and
Richland Counties.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The area between property lines utilized or reserved for use
as a public street, alley or pedestrian way.
   STREET.  A public right-of-way for vehicular traffic, including, but not
limited to, a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane,
drive, court or circle.
      (1)   ALLEY.  A vehicular right-of-way providing a secondary means of
access to the rear or side of abutting properties.
      (2)   CUL-DE-SAC.  A minor street having one end open to vehicular
traffic and the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
      (3)   DEAD-END STREET.  A street having one end open to vehicular traffic
and the other end temporarily terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
      (4)   MAJOR STREET and ARTERIAL STREET.  A street of considerable
continuity utilized for the movement of traffic between large and/or widely
separated areas.
      (5)   MINOR STREET and LOCAL STREET.  A street utilized primarily for
access to abutting properties.
      (6)   SECONDARY STREET and COLLECTOR STREET. A street of intermediate
continuity utilized for the movement of traffic between arterial streets and
local streets.
   SUBDIVIDER.  An individual, group of individuals, organization or any other
legal entity commencing proceedings to subdivide land under these Subdivision
Regulations.
   SUBDIVISION.  The division of a parcel of land into two or more parcels for
the purposes, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or the
improvement of one or more parcels of land, involving the division or
allocation of land for the opening, widening or extension of a street, the
creation of open spaces for common use by abutting properties or the granting
of easements for extension and maintenance of public utilities.
   UTILITIES EASEMENT.  An easement granted for the installation and/or
maintenance of public utilities.
   VERTICAL VISIBILITY.  The minimum unobstructed distance between the top of
an object four inches high placed on the centerline of a street and another
point on the centerline of the same street located 4.5 feet above the surface
thereof.
   VILLAGE.  The Village of Plymouth, Ohio.
(`94 Code, § 1121.04)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 153.015  NUMBER OF COPIES REQUIRED; SUBMISSION OF COPIES.
   (A)   Number of copies required.  The following number of copies of
preliminary plat components are required:
 
                     In the Village In the Three-Mile
                                    Area of Jurisdiction
Applications         1              1
Preliminary maps     4              6
Protective covenants 1              1
Vicinity maps        1              2
 
(`94 Code, § 1125.01)
   (B)   Submission of copies.  The subdivider shall submit the required number
of copies of the preliminary plat to the Village Administrator not later than
15 working days prior to the next meeting of the Planning Commission.  (`94
Code, § 1125.02)
(Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.016  PUBLIC HEARINGS; NOTICE.
   A public hearing on the proposed plat shall be held by the Planning
Commission and shall be scheduled to occur at the same time and place as the
meeting at which the proposed plat is to be considered by the Commission.
Notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation
in the village not later than ten days prior to the meeting. Owners of lands
immediately adjacent to the lands shown on the proposed plat shall be given
notice by certified mail at least five days prior to such meeting.
(`94 Code, § 1125.03)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.017  EVALUATION REPORTS.
   The Village Administrator shall prepare a report evaluating the conformity
of the proposed plat with design standards and regulations and make such
recommendations for alteration as he or she deems necessary.
(`94 Code, § 1125.04)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.018  APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   At its meetings, the Planning Commission shall hear the report of the
Village Administrator upon the proposed plat and shall hold a public hearing
thereon. Following the hearing, the Commission may take action as follows:
   (A)   Approval. The Commission may approve the preliminary plat and
authorize the subdivider to proceed with the preparation of the final plat.
   (B)   Approval in Principle. The Commission may give approval in principle
when, in the judgment of the Commission, it is clear that defects in the plat
can be corrected and that the subdivider is clearly willing to make such
corrections as are necessary and required by the Commission. Such approval in
principle shall not bind the Commission to subsequent favorable action on the
preliminary plat, but shall serve as an indication of specific problems to be
solved by the subdivider before favorable action can be taken.
   (C)   Tabling. The Commission may table the proposed plat for further
consideration, subject to the time limitation specified in §
153.019.
   (D)   Denial. The Commission may deny the proposed plat for failure to
comply with the regulations and standards specified in §
153.020.
(`94 Code, § 1125.05)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.019  TIME LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   A preliminary plat not acted upon by the Planning Commission within 60
calendar days after the date of submission shall be considered approved as
submitted.
   (B)   The approval of the preliminary plat shall be valid for not more than
two years.
(`94 Code, § 1125.06)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.020  PRELIMINARY PLAT MAP CONTENTS.
   The preliminary plat map shall be drawn to a scale of not more than 400 feet
to the inch and shall contain the following data and information:
   (A)   The name of the subdivision and its location by section, town, range
and township, the names and addresses of the owner, subdivider and engineer and
the scale and north point of the map;
   (B)   The boundaries of the proposed plat, with the names of adjacent
property owners or subdivisions;
   (C)   The locations, right-of-way widths and names of all existing or
platted streets, railroads, utilities or right-of-way easements within 200 feet
of the proposed plat;
   (D)   Zoning districts, building setback lines, with dimensions, and
easements, with dimensions;
   (E)   Existing contours with intervals of not more than five feet where the
slope is greater than 10% and not more than two feet where the slope is less
than 10%. Elevations shall be shown relative to sea level data;
   (F)   The locations, rights-of-way and names of all proposed streets, the
locations and dimensions of all sidewalks and easements and the layout,
dimensions and numbers of all proposed lots;
   (G)   The land reserved or dedicated for public use or reserved for the
common use of property owners;
   (H)   The locations of existing sewers, water mains, culverts and other
utilities, above or below ground, in the tract and within 200 feet thereof,
together with pipe sizes and grades; and
   (I)   The locations of proposed sewers, drainage courses and water mains in
the tract and within 200 feet thereof.
(`94 Code, § 1125.07)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
FINAL PLATS
§ 153.035  NUMBER OF COPIES REQUIRED; SUBMISSION OF COPIES.
   (A)   Number of copies required.  The following number of copies of final
plat components are required:
 
                      In the Village In the Three-Mile
                                     Area of Jurisdiction
Applications          1              1
Construction drawings 3              6
Cost estimates        2              3
Final maps            3              6
 
(`94 Code, § 1129.01)
   (B)   Submission of copies.  The subdivider shall submit the required number
of copies of the final plat to the Village Administrator not later than seven
working days prior to the next meeting of the Planning Commission. 
(`94 Code, § 1129.02)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.036  REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   At its meeting, the Planning Commission shall review the final plat
for conformity with the preliminary plat and all other requirements of these
Subdivision Regulations. If the plat is found to meet such requirements, the
Commission shall approve the plat and recommend its approval by Council.
   (B)   Within 30 days after receipt of the final plat, Council shall approve
the plat. The subdivider shall accompany such submission with evidence that all
improvements have been completed to the satisfaction of the Village
Administrator or shall post a bond for 100% of the cost of such improvements
pending the completion thereof.
(`94 Code, § 1129.03)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.037  NOTIFICATION OF SUBDIVIDER; RECORDING.
   The Village Administrator shall notify the subdivider of the decisions of
the Planning Commission and Council, by mail, within five working days after
the date of such action. The subdivider is then required to record the plat
with the County Recorder within 90 days. If such recording is not made within
90 days, the approval shall become void and reapplication must be made.
(`94 Code, § 1129.04)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.038  FILE COPIES.
   After recording the plat in the manner prescribed in §
153.037, the subdivider shall file with the village a reproducible tracing on
cloth or an equally durable substitute of the final plat.
(`94 Code, § 1129.05)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.039  TIME LIMITATIONS.
   If the final plat is not approved within 30 days from the date of
submission, the provisions of R.C. § 711.09 shall apply.
(`94 Code, § 1129.06)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.040  FINAL PLAT MAP CONTENTS.
   The final plat map shall be drawn to a scale of not more than 100 feet to
the inch in India ink on tracing cloth or an equally durable substitute and
shall contain the following data and information:
   (A)   The name of the subdivision, its location by section, town, range,
township, county and state, its acreage and the scale and north point of the
map;
   (B)   The names of the owner or owners of record, the subdivider and the
registered surveyor who prepared the plat and the location and ownership of
adjoining property;
   (C)   Certification by a surveyor or engineer registered in the state that
the plan represents a survey made by him or her and that all monuments shown
thereon actually exist and that their locations, size and material are
correctly shown;
   (D)   A statement dedicating land offered for public use, or property to be
reserved for the common use of property owners, along with identification and
measurement thereof;
   (E)   Protective covenants and restrictions;
   (F)   A statement of approval by the Planning Commission and a statement of
acceptance by the Village Administrator and, if the plat is within the three-
mile area of jurisdiction, a statement of acceptance by the County
Commissioners of Huron County, Ohio, or the County Commissioners of Richland
County, Ohio.
   (G)   A statement of acknowledgment by the owner of his or her adoption of
the plat and dedication of streets and other public areas;
   (H)   A certificate of a notary public and evidence of title from an
attorney at law;
   (I)   If a zoning change is involved, certification by Council or the
appropriate Planning Commission that such change has been approved;
   (J)   The boundary lines of the area being subdivided with accurate
dimensions and bearings. The exterior boundary, when computed from field
measurements on the ground, shall close to an error of not more than one in
10,000 before balancing survey.
   (K)   Plat boundaries, which shall be tied to existing monuments, street
lines, section corners or other survey lines by bearings and distances and
which shall be accurately described or located on the plat;
   (L)   A known reference point and any corporation, section, township or
county line crossing or immediately adjacent thereto;
   (M)   The location of all proposed or existing monuments and bench marks
within the plat or immediately adjacent to the plat;
   (N)   All lot lines with the necessary distances and bearings, all linear
dimensions and angular measurements and a numbering system identifying each
lot;
   (O)   Building setback lines with dimensions;
   (P)   A plan and profile of all streets and storm and sanitary sewer lines;
   (Q)   A plan of all water lines; and
   (R)   The measurement and identification of areas reserved for schools,
parks or common use.
(`94 Code, § 1129.07)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.041  FINAL PLAT MAP PLATTING DETAIL.
   The platting detail on the final plat map shall be as follows:
   (A)   All bearings and angles shall be to the nearest second and all
distances to one hundredth of a foot.
   (B)   Street and other right-of-way lines, both within and adjacent to the
plat, and their names, bearings and widths (including widths along the line of
any obliquely intersecting street, lot or tract boundary line) shall be given.
   (C)   Street intersection corners shall have the radius, central angle, arc
length and tangent given.
   (D)   Curve data shall be given for each lot or parcel (radius, arc length,
central angle and chord).
(`94 Code, § 1129.08)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.060  STREETS.
   (A)   Layout pattern. Street layout shall conform to the general pattern
shown on the Major Thoroughfare Plan and with these Subdivision Regulations and
shall be designed with due regard to topography, drainage and other physical
considerations.
   (B)   Continuity. The street pattern shall make provisions of the
continuance of streets into adjacent vacant property and for connection to
existing rights-of-way in adjacent developed property.
   (C)   Names.  The names of new streets shall not duplicate existing street
names except where coterminous or where the new right-of-way is in alignment
with an existing one. All new streets shall be named in accordance with the
following schedule:
General Direction of Street Name Ends With
North and south             Street
East and west               Avenue
Diagonal                    Road
Curving                     Drive
Cul-de-sac, north and south Place
Cul-de-sac, east and west   Court
Circular, or part thereof   Circle
Alley, east and west        Lane
Alley, north and south      Way
 
   (D)   Widths, grades, curve radii.  Streets shall be designed in accordance
with the following standards:
 
                      Minimum     Maximum   Maximum              Minimum
Type of     Right of  Pavement    Grade     Curve   Minimum      Vertical
Street      way (ft.) (back to    (percent) (deg.)  Radius (ft.) Visibility
                      back) (ft.)                                (ft.)
Arterial
(major)     80        24 plus 24  4         5       1,150        500
divided
Undivided   70        48          4         5       1,150        500
Collector   60        36          8         20      300          200
(secondary)
Local       50        28          10        --      ---          ---
(minor)
 
   (E)   Intersections.
      (1)   Streets shall intersect at right angles wherever possible and
practical.
      (2)   Curb lines at intersections shall be rounded to a minimum radius of
25 feet and property lines at intersections to a minimum radius of 15 feet.
      (3)   Street grade shall not exceed 3% within 100 feet of an
intersection, except that the maximum percentage herein set forth may be
exceeded due to topography, upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission
and approval of Council.
      (4)   The approach to an intersection shall be perpendicular to the
intersected street for a distance of not less than 100 feet from the centerline
of the intersected street.
      (5)   Jogs of less than 125 feet from centerline to centerline are not
permitted.
   (F)   Dead-ends and cul-de-sacs.
      (1)   Dead-end streets are not permitted unless they are provided with a
paved cul-de-sac having a right-of-way radius of not less than 50 feet and a
pavement radius of not less than 40 feet, except in the case of a cul-de-sac
having an island in the center thereof, in which case, the island may not
exceed a diameter of 44 feet. The right-of-way radius of a cul-de-sac having an
island must be not less than 60 feet and the pavement width must be not less
than 28 feet. The developer of a cul-de-sac having an island shall provide for
the perpetual development and maintenance thereof by the property owners
adjoining the cul-de-sac. In the event any such island is inadequately
maintained for a period of one year or becomes a traffic or safety hazard, the
village may, after 30 days written notice to the adjoining property owners
thereof, remove such island and assess the cost for such removal and the cost
of improvement of the cul-de-sac to the adjoining property owners. Dedication
of the cul-de-sac shall not be accepted without adequate assurance of
appropriate deed restrictions to ensure compliance with this section.
      (2)   The maximum length of a cul-de-sac shall be 600 feet measured from
the center of the turn-around to the centerline of the intersecting street.
      (3)   Where a street ends at a subdivision line to be extended in the
future, it shall be provided with a temporary turn-around until such extension
is completed.
   (G)   Half or partial streets. The dedication of half or partial streets is
not permitted, except when a half or partial street exists adjacent to the
tract to be subdivided, in which case the other portion of such half or partial
street shall be dedicated.
   (H)   Alleys.
      (1)   Alleys are not permitted in single and two-family districts, unless
necessitated by unusual circumstances.
      (2)   Alleys shall be provided in multifamily, business and industrial
districts, unless satisfactory alternate arrangements are made for access to
off-street parking, loading and service areas.
      (3)   The minimum width of an alley shall be 20 feet.
      (4)   Dead-end alleys are not permitted.
(`94 Code, § 1131.01)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70; Am. Ord. 16-96, passed 7-9-
96; Am. Ord. 17-96, passed 8-13-96) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.061  BLOCKS.
   The length, width and shape of a block shall be determined with due regard
to the need for access, areas of buildable sites and limitations of topography,
but in no case shall a block exceed 2,000 feet in length.
(`94 Code, § 1131.02)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.062  LOTS.
   (A)   Frontage.
      (1)   All lots shall abut by their full frontage on a public street.
      (2)   Double frontage lots, other than corner lots or lots backing on a
major street, are not permitted.
   (B)   Minimum Size. Except as modified by applicable zoning regulations, all
lots shall meet or exceed the following minimum sizes:
      (1)   Area.  Each lot served by both water and sanitary sewer facilities
shall have a minimum area of 7,500 square feet. If either water or sanitary
facilities, or both, are not available to the lot, the lot shall have such
minimum area as is determined by the health agency having jurisdiction in the
area.
      (2)   Width. Each interior lot shall have an average minimum width of 60
feet and a width of at least 40 feet at the building line. Each corner lot
shall have a minimum width of 65 feet as measured across the least width of
less than 20 feet at any point.
      (3)   Depth. Each lot shall have an average minimum depth of 125 feet.
   (C)   Shape.
      (1)   All lots shall be as nearly rectangular as practical. Irregular or
odd-shaped lots will be permitted only when unavoidable and then only when
sufficiently large to permit reasonable construction and occupancy of permitted
structures.
      (2)   The average depth of a lot shall be not greater than three times
its average width.
      (3)   Triangular lots are not permitted.
   (D)   Lines.
      (1)   Side lot lines shall be approximately perpendicular to the street
line or radial to a curved street line.
      (2)   Curved side or rear lot lines are not permitted.
   (E)   Setbacks.  Except as modified by applicable zoning regulations, the
minimum building set-back line on residential lots shall be 25 feet, measured
from the street right-of-way.
   (F)   Corner Lots. Corner lots shall be designed with due regard to setbacks
and side yard limitations to allow reasonable construction and occupancy of
permitted structures.
   (G)   Minimum Depth; Easements. Lots backing on a major street shall have a
minimum depth of 150 feet. A ten-foot easement shall be required at the rear
line of such lots and vehicular access shall not be permitted across such
easement.
(`94 Code, § 1131.03)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.063  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements for utilities or other purposes shall be located along rear
lot lines, and where necessary, along side lot lines.
   (B)   Easements shall normally be ten feet in width, with five feet on each
side of the lot line. Greater widths may be required if necessitated by unusual
circumstances.
(`94 Code, § 1131.04)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.075  CONFORMITY OF IMPROVEMENTS WITH AGENCY SPECIFICATIONS; COMPLETION OF
IMPROVEMENTS OR BOND REQUIRED.
   All improvements required by these Subdivision Regulations shall be
constructed and completed under the supervision of, and to the specifications
required by, the agency or agencies having jurisdiction over them. Final
approval of any plat shall be withheld until all required improvements are
completed to the satisfaction of the agency or agencies involved, or until bond
has been posted in favor of the village in the amount of 100% of the estimated
cost of the improvements.
(`94 Code, § 1133.01)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.076  STREETS.
   (A)   New Streets. New streets shall be paved to the minimum width specified
in §
153.060(D), provided that in the case of an arterial major street, the
requirements may be modified in one of the following ways:
      (1)   The subdivider shall not be required to pave any such arterial
street to a width of more than 25 feet on each side of the centerline thereof,
or the equivalent in the case of a divided pavement.
      (2)   The subdivider may enter into a contract with the village to pay
into the village treasury an amount equal to the cost of pavement as required
by division (A)(1) hereof, which amount shall then be used by the village in
construction of such arterial street.
      (3)   If all lots are to back on such arterial street, the requirements
for paving shall not apply.
   (B)   Existing Streets. When land is being subdivided along an existing
street, the village may require that the pavement be widened. Such widening
need not exceed 18 feet on each side of the centerline.
   (C)   Grades and Curves. Grades and curves shall not exceed the requirements
specified in §
153.060.
   (D)   Materials and Specifications. Materials and specifications for the
design and construction of streets, pavements, curbs and gutters, as required
by this section, shall be in conformity with the current specifications on file
in the office of the Village Engineer.
(`94 Code, § 1133.02)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.077  SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The installation of sidewalks is optional on a minor street. On a
major arterial street, sidewalks are mandatory on both sides of the street.
   (B)   Where installation is required, a sidewalk shall be 40 inches wide
with the line nearest the abutting property one foot from the abutting property
line.
   (C)   Materials and specifications for the design and construction of
sidewalks, as required by this section, shall be in conformity with current
specifications on file in the office of the Administrator.
(`94 Code, § 1133.03)  (Ord. 24-81, passed 8-13-81) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.078  WATER SUPPLY; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   A water supply serving all lots in a subdivision is hereby required.
   (B)   Where a public water supply is available, as determined by the
village, every lot in the subdivision shall be provided with a connection
thereto at the expense of the subdivider.
   (C)   Where a public water supply is not available, as determined by the
village, the subdivider shall construct wells or another private system,
subject to approval by the village or the county agency having jurisdiction.
   (D)   Fire hydrants shall be installed in all subdivisions at all street
intersections and other points at intervals of not more than 600 feet.
   (E)   Materials and specifications for the design and construction of water
supplies and fire hydrants, as required by this section, shall be in conformity
with the current specifications on file in the office of the Village Engineer.
(`94 Code, § 1133.04)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.079  SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   A sanitary sewage disposal system serving all lots in a subdivision is
hereby required.
   (B)   Where a public sanitary sewerage system is available, as determined by
the village, every lot in the subdivision shall be provided with a connection
thereto at the expense of the subdivider.
   (C)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, as determined by the
village, the subdivider shall provide an acceptable disposal system, subject to
approval by the village or the county agency having jurisdiction.
   (D)   Materials and specifications for the design and construction of
sanitary sewage disposal facilities, as required by this section, shall be in
conformity with the current specifications on file in the office of the Village
Engineer.
(`94 Code, § 1133.05)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.080  STORM SEWERAGE SYSTEMS; GRADING OF LOTS.
   (A)   A system for disposal of storm drainage in all subdivisions is hereby
required.
   (B)   Where an existing public storm drainage facility is available, as
determined by the village, the storm drainage system of a subdivision shall be
connected thereto.
   (C)   Where connection to a public storm drainage system is not possible, as
determined by the village, the subdivider shall make such alternate provisions
for storm drainage disposal as are approved by the village or the county agency
having jurisdiction.
   (D)   Each lot in a subdivision shall be so graded as to permit the flow of
storm drainage from the entire lot to a public system for disposal.
   (E)   Materials and specifications for the design and construction of storm
drainage disposal facilities, as required by this section, shall be in
conformity with the current specifications on file in the office of the Village
Engineer.
(`94 Code, § 1133.06)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.081  OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Street name signs shall be provided at all street intersections and
shall be of a type approved by the Village Administrator. Such signs shall be
placed in conformity with the current specifications on file in the office of
the Village Engineer.
   (B)   Street lighting of a type approved by the Village Administrator shall
be provided in all subdivisions.
   (C)   Street tree planting plans may be submitted to the Administrator for
approval and, if approved, such trees shall be planted in accordance with the
provisions of applicable ordinances and regulations.
   (D)   Monuments consisting of steel pins one inch in diameter and not less
than 30 inches in length shall be placed at all angle points, points of curves
in streets and intermediate points, as required by the village, and at all lot
corners.
   (E)   Permanent monuments consisting of stone or concrete 36 inches in
length and six inches in diameter, with a reinforcing bar or pipe cast in the
center, shall be placed at all block corners and at the intersection of all
subdivision boundary lines.
   (F)   Public areas shall be required as specified by applicable ordinances
and regulations.
   (G)   The subdivider shall enter into an agreement with the village
containing a restriction upon the plat whereby the Administrator shall not be
permitted to issue a building permit for any structure upon any lot within the
subdivision until the improvements, as specified in this section, have been
completed, or satisfactory arrangements have been made with the village for the
completion of such improvements. Such plat restrictions shall be made a part of
all deeds or contracts for any lot within the subdivision.
(`94 Code, § 1133.07) 
Penalty, see § 153.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.095  RESPONSIBILITIES OF PLANNING COMMISSION AND ADMINISTRATOR.
   These Subdivision Regulations shall be administered and enforced by the
Planning Commission and the Village Administrator. Such rules and procedures as
are necessary to carry out the provisions of these Subdivision Regulations may
be adopted by the Commission and the Administrator.
(`94 Code, § 1123.01)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.096  CONSULTATIONS OF SUBDIVIDER WITH VILLAGE.
   It is recommended that the subdivider or his or her engineer consult with
the Village Administrator while a subdivision plan is still in sketch form and
before the preliminary plat is prepared, to acquaint himself or herself with
village ordinances, planned projects and performance bond and contract
requirements.
(`94 Code, § 1123.02)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.097  RECORDING OF PLATS; APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be recorded with the county or have any
validity until approved in the manner prescribed in these Subdivision
Regulations.
(`94 Code, § 1123.03)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.098  SALES PROHIBITED PRIOR TO TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
   No person proposing to make or having made a subdivision within the
territorial jurisdiction of these Subdivision Regulations shall make any
contract for the sale of, or offer to sell, a subdivision or any part thereof,
or proceed with any construction work on the proposed subdivision, including
grading, which may affect the arrangement of streets, until such person has
obtained from the Planning Commission and Council tentative approval of the
proposed subdivision.
(`94 Code, § 1123.04)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.099  ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   No permit required for any work in connection with any subdivision shall be
issued until the plat therefor has been approved and recorded as prescribed in
these Subdivision Regulations and until house numbers have been assigned by the
village. Such house numbers shall be placed on each unit in a conspicuous
location acceptable to the Post Office Department.
(`94 Code, § 1123.05)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.100  WITHHOLDING OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   The village shall withhold all public services of any nature, including the
maintenance of streets and the furnishing of sewage facilities and water
service, from all subdivisions which have not been approved and from all areas
dedicated to the public which have not been accepted by the Planning Commission
and Council in the manner prescribed in these Subdivision Regulations.
(`94 Code, § 1123.06)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.101  INSPECTION COSTS.
   The subdivider shall reimburse the village for the costs, to the village, of
inspecting and checking of water and sewer facility installations and street
construction by village personnel or personnel hired by the village.
(`94 Code, § 1123.07)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.102  PLAT FILING FEE.
   The minimum filing fee for a subdivision plat shall be $20 per acre.
(`94 Code, § 1123.08)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.103  SUBDIVISIONS OF FIVE LOTS OR LESS.
   (A)   When a proposed subdivision of land involves five lots or less and
does not require the opening, widening or extension of any street, it may be
submitted to the Planning Commission for approval without a plat, provided,
however, that a cumulative total of not more than five lots shall be permitted
on one parcel of land without a plat.
   (B)   A drawing based upon a survey showing the location of the property and
giving dimensions and other such information as may be necessary and a legal
description in writing must be submitted with the request.
   (C)   When the existing street right-of-way width is inadequate, a right-of-
way conveyance by deed shall be made by the owner to satisfy the deficiency.
Such dedication shall be made to the village when the land in question is
within the corporate limits or to the county when it is within the three-mile
area of jurisdiction. The grantor shall not be required to install street
improvements as a condition of conveyance.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the drawing, legal description and right-of-way
conveyance, if required, the Planning Commission shall determine to its
satisfaction that the proposed lot split is not contrary to any applicable
platting, subdividing or zoning regulations, and if no conflict exists it shall
approve the lot split.
(`94 Code, § 1123.09)  (Ord. 17-70, passed 9-22-70)
§ 153.104  BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Required.  No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
demolished, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered without first
obtaining, from the Village Administrator, a building permit and the payment of
a fee as provided in division (B) below of this section.  (`94 Code, §
1123.10)  (Ord. 19-84, passed 8-14-84)
   (B)   Fee schedule.  A schedule of fees for building permits is established
as follows:
(1)   Residential/Building, Churches and Schools Fee
                                                    $ 0.16 per sq. ft. (minimum fee of $30), which shall be divided as follows:
                                                     
(a)   New construction                           75% to building
                                                     
                                                    25% to electrical
                                                      0.16 per sq. ft. (minimum fee of $30), which shall be divided as follows:
                                                     
(b)   Additions                                  75% to building
                                                     
                                                    25% to electrical
(c)   Electrical                                  
                                                   30.00
Service entrance                                     
                                                     0.04 per sq. ft. (minimum fee of $5)
Rewiring
(d)   Moving of building                         40.00
(e)   Demolition of building                     10.00
(f)   Mobile homes                               30.00
(2)   Business, Industrial and All Other Buildings
(a)   Building, area less than 1,000 sq. ft.*    20.00
(b)   Building, area between 1,000 and 1,500 sq. 35.00
ft.*
(c)   Building, area more than 1,500 square feet 50.00
(d)   Moving                                     40.00
(e)   Demolition                                 20.00
*Area includes all floor area under roof except unfinished basements
 
      (3)   Any building permit issued pursuant to this chapter is valid for a
period of one year from the date of issuance.
(`94 Code, § 1123.11)  (Ord. 19-84, passed 8-14-84; Am. Ord. 7-97, passed 3-11-
97; Am. Ord. 4-98, passed 3-10-98; Am. Ord. 20-98, passed 9-8-98)
§ 153.999  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of these Subdivision Regulations shall be fined not
less than $5 nor more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. The owner of any
buildings or premises or parts thereof, that are in violation of these
Regulations and any architect, building contractor, agent or person employed in
connection therewith and who may have assisted in the commission of any such
violation shall be guilty of a separate offense.
(`94 Code, § 1123.99)  (Ord. 19-84, passed 8-14-84)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Construction of language
   
154.003   Interpretation
   
154.004   Validity and separability
   
154.005   Definitions
   
154.006   Applicability and non-applicability to the village's zoning
regulations to land within the corporate limits of the village
Zoning Districts and Regulations
   
154.015   Establishment of districts
   
154.016   Zoning district maps
   
154.017   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
154.018   Zoning of annexed areas
   
154.019   Zoning of vacated areas
   
154.020   R-1 Residential District
   
154.021   R-2 Residential District
   
154.022   MF Multiple Family Residential District
   
154.023   MH Mobile Home Park District
   
154.024   B-1 General Business District
   
154.025   B-2 Highway Service Business District
   
154.026   I-1 Light Industrial District
   
154.027   I-2 Heavy Industrial District
   
154.028   Architectural District
Nonconforming Lots, Uses and Structures
   
154.040   Scope
   
154.041   Purpose
   
154.042   Regulations
   
154.043   Repairs, maintenance and construction
   
154.044   Exempt nonconforming uses
   
154.045   Accessory buildings and uses
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
154.060   Off-street parking regulations
   
154.061   Off-street loading and unloading
General Zoning Requirements and Exceptions
   
154.075   Temporary building and structures
   
154.076   Conditions and safeguards
   
154.077   Sewer and water facilities
   
154.078   Approval of subdivision plats
   
154.079   Inconsistencies
   
154.080   Drainage channels
   
154.081   Corner lots
   
154.082   Lots, yards and open spaces
   
154.083   Water well or septic tank systems
   
154.084   Area, yard, height and use exceptions
   
154.085   Permitted height exceptions
   
154.086   Essential services
   
154.087   Dwelling quarters in nonresidential districts
   
154.088   Projections into yards
   
154.089   Construction
   
154.090   Front yard variances in residential districts
   
154.091   Railroad rights-of-way
   
154.092   Garage sales
   
154.093   Fencing and screening devices
   
154.094   Corner clearance
   
154.095   Manufactured/mobile homes
Open Space Development
   
154.105   Purpose
   
154.106   Reduction in lot area
Sign Regulations
   
154.120   Intent
   
154.121   General requirements for all signs in all districts
   
154.122   Measurement of sign area
   
154.123   Prohibited signs
   
154.124   Signs permitted in all districts without a permit
   
154.125   Wall signs
   
154.126   Projecting signs
   
154.127   Ground signs
   
154.128   Roof signs
   
154.129   Portable and temporary signs
   
154.130   Small advertising signs
   
154.131   Traffic direction or guidance signs
   
154.132   Trailer-mounted signs
   
154.133   Off-premise signs
   
154.134   Structural requirements
   
154.135   Sign permits; fee
   
154.136   Maintenance
   
154.137   Variances
   
154.138   Nonconforming signs
Adult Entertainment and Amusement
   
154.150   Definitions
   
154.151   Standards and guidelines
Communication Towers
   
154.165   Purpose
   
154.166   Definitions
   
154.167   Permit process
   
154.168   Chapter regulations to supplement other regulations
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.180   Responsibility of Zoning Inspector
   
154.181   Duties of Zoning Inspector
   
154.182   Application procedure for zoning certificate
   
154.183   Fees
   
154.184   Public nuisance
   
154.185   Inspection
   
154.186   Correction period
   
154.187   Planning Commission
   
154.188   Amendments
   
154.189   Conditional zoning certificates
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Planning and Zoning Code shall be to regulate and
restrict the location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade,
industry, residence, public and semipublic or other specified uses; to regulate
and limit the height and bulk of buildings and other structures; to regulate
and determine the area and dimension of yards, courts and other open spaces; to
regulate and limit the density of population; and to divide the village into
districts, establishing the boundaries thereof; provide for changes in the
regulations and boundaries of such districts; define certain terms used herein;
provide for the administration and enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance; and to
establish a Board of Zoning Appeals and define the powers and duties of such
Board of Appeals.
(`94 Code, § 1141.01)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.002  CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   The following rules of construction apply to the provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance (this chapter):
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
provisions of this chapter and any caption or illustration, the provisions
shall control.
   (C)   SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary; MAY is permissive.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense include the future; and words used in
the singular number include the plural, and the plural the singular, unless the
context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   USED FOR includes "arranged for," "designed for," "intended for,"
"maintained for" or "occupied for."
   (F)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the
conjunction "and," "or," or "either or," the conjunction shall be interpreted
as follows:
      (1)    "And" means that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events shall apply.
      (2)   "Or" means that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events may apply singularly or in combination.
      (3)   "Either or" means that the connected items, conditions, provisions
or events shall apply singularly, but not in combination.
   (G)   Terms not defined herein shall have the meaning customarily assigned
to them.
(`94 Code, § 1141.02)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.003  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience or general welfare. It is not intended by
this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way to impair or interfere
with any existing provision, law or ordinance, or with any rules, regulations
or permits previously adopted or issued or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to the law and regulations governing the use of buildings or premises;
provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater restriction than
is required by an existing ordinance or by rules, regulations or permits, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(`94 Code, § 1141.03)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.004  VALIDITY AND SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the legislative intent of this chapter that if
any provisions of this chapter, or the application thereof to any zoning lot,
building or other structure, or tract of land, are declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or ineffective in whole or in part, or to
be inapplicable to any person, firm, corporation or situation, the effect of
such decision shall be limited to the provision or provisions which are
expressly stated in the decision to be invalid or ineffective to the zoning
lot, building or other structure, or tract of land immediately involved in the
controversy. All other provisions of this chapter shall continue to be separate
and fully effective, and the application of such provision to other persons or
situations shall not be affected.
(`94 Code, § 1141.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.005  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE.  A use which is clearly incidental and subordinate to, and
located on the same lot as, the principal use to which it is related. An
ACCESSORY USE includes, but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   Residential accommodations for servants and caretakers.
      (2)   Off-street parking spaces, open or enclosed.
      (3)   Swimming pools for use of the occupants of a residence or their
guests.
      (4)   Storage of goods used in or produced by business or industrial
activities.
   ALTERATION.  Any change, addition, alteration or rearrangement in
construction or type of occupancy, or change in the structural parts of a
building such as walls, windows, partitions, columns, girders or the moving
from one location or position to another.
   BASEMENT.  That portion of a building which is all or partly below ground
level, and so located that the vertical distance from the grade to the floor
below is greater than the vertical distance from the grade to the ceiling. When
a basement floor is less than two feet below the ground level, it shall be
rated as the first story.
   BOARDING HOUSE.  A dwelling in which lodging or lodging and meals are
furnished to two or more boarders for compensation.
   BUILDING.  Any structure designed, built or occupied as a shelter which is
permanently affixed to the land and has one or more floors and a roof. When a
structure is separated by a fire wall, each such separated portion of such
structure shall be deemed a separate building. A BUILDING shall not include
such structures as billboards, fences, radio towers or structures with interior
spaces not normally accessible for human use, such as water towers, tanks,
grain elevators or similar structures.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.  The vertical distance measured from the established grade
to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the deck line of a
mansard roof; and to the average height between eaves and the ridge line of a
gable, hip or gambrel roof. Where a building is located on sloping terrain or
the side of a hill, the height may be measured from the average elevation of
the finished grade at the building wall.
   BUILDING LINE.  A line defining the minimum front, side and rear yard
requirements.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINES.  Lines defining the minimum depth for front and side
yard requirements.
   CENTRALIZED SEWER SYSTEM.  One in which individual lots are connected to a
common disposal system whether publicly or privately owned and operated.
   CENTRALIZED WATER SYSTEM.  A system in which individual lots are connected
to a common water distribution system and plant facilities whether publicly or
privately owned and operated.
   CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USE.  A use that is permitted in zoning districts
subject to approval by the Planning Commission.
   DENSITY.  The number of dwelling units developed on any given acre of land.
   DISTRICT.  A portion of the incorporated area of the village within which
certain regulations and requirements or various combinations apply under the
provisions of this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN.  A business establishment so developed that its retail or service
character is dependent on providing a driveway approach and parking spaces for
motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle rather than
within a building or structure.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY.  a building or portion thereof designed
exclusively for or converted for occupancy by three or more families, living
independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A building or portion thereof, designed for occupancy by one
family for residential purposes and having cooking and sanitary facilities.
   DWELLING UNIT, ONE-FAMILY.  A building designed exclusively for and occupied
by one family.
   DWELLING UNIT, TWO-FAMILY.  A building designed exclusively for, or
converted for occupancy by two families, living independently of each other.
   ERECTED.  Built, constructed, altered, moved upon, reconstructed; any
physical operations on the premises which are required for construction.
Excavations, fill, drainage and the like, shall be considered a part of
erection.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.  The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance
by public utility companies or municipal departments or commissions of
underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communications, supply or disposal systems,
including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, four
alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar
equipment and accessories, furnishing of adequate service by such public
utilities or municipal departments or commissions, or for the public health,
safety or general welfare.
   EXCAVATION.  Any breaking of ground, except common household gardening and
ground care.
   FAMILY.  One or more persons or parents related by marriage or immediate
blood relationship occupying a premise and living as a single housekeeping
unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, a lodging
house, club, fraternity or hotel.
   FARM.  The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture,
animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary uses for packing, treating or
storing of produce; provided that one operation of such accessory use shall be
secondary to that of the normal agriculture activities, and provided that the
above uses shall not include the commercial feeding of garbage or offal to
swine or other animals. A use shall be classified as agriculture only if it is
the principal or main use of the land.
   FEEDER ROAD.  A street or road intersecting with a limited access highway
and having interchange facilities with such limited access highway.
   FLOOR AREA.  For the purpose of computing the minimum allowable floor area
per dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal areas of each story of the
building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the
centerline of walls separating two buildings. The floor area measurement is
exclusive of areas devoted to basements, unfinished attics, attached garages,
breezeways and enclosed or unenclosed porches.
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE. For the purposes of computing the total number of
parking spaces, means that area used for or intended to be used for the sale of
merchandise or services, or for use to serve patrons, clients or customers.
Such floor area which is used or intended to be used principally for the
storage or processing of merchandise, hallways or for utilities or sanitary
facilities, shall be excluded. Measurement of useable floor area shall be the
sum of the horizontal areas of the several floors of the buildings measured
from the interior faces of the exterior walls.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  An accessory building or portion of a main building
designed and used solely for the storage of motor vehicles, boats and similar
vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building.
   GARAGE, SERVICE.  Any premise used for the storage or care of motor
vehicles, or where any such vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired or
for hire or sale.
   GRADE.  The ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of a building. The building grade shall be the
level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished grade
is level. If the ground is not entirely level, the grade shall be determined by
computing the average elevation of the ground for each face of the building,
and taking the average of such total averages.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  Any occupation conducted entirely within a dwelling unit
and carried on by persons residing in the dwelling unit, which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and
does not involve any extension or modification of such dwelling which will
alter its outward appearance as a dwelling and in connection with which there
is no display of stock in trade or commodities sold except those which are
produced on the premises.
   HOTEL.  A structure kept, used, maintained, advertised r held out to the
public to be a place where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
transient guests, in which five or more rooms are used for the accommodation of
such guests, such sleeping accommodations being conducted in the same building
in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made through an inside
lobby or office supervised by a person in charge at all hours. No guest shall
establish permanent residence at a hotel for more than 60 days within any
calendar year.
   JUNK YARD.  The use of more than 200 square feet of land, whether inside or
outside a building, where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled, stored or handled.
   LOADING SPACE.  An off-street space or berth outside the street right-of-way
line on the same lot with a building or group of buildings, for the temporary
parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or
materials.
   LOT.  A parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by one or more
buildings and the accessory buildings or uses customarily incidental to it,
together with such yards, lot area depths and widths as are required by this
chapter.
   LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot at the point of intersection of and abutting on two or
more intersecting streets, the angle of intersection being not more than 135
degrees.
   LOT, DEPTH.  The horizontal distance between the street right-of-way line
and rear lot lines measured along the median between the side lot lines. Where
the right-of-way width is not established, it shall be assumed to be 60 feet.
Where a major thoroughfare or collector thoroughfare is designated on the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan, the lot depth shall be measured from the proposed
right-of-way.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES.  The lines defining the limits of a lot as described below:
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, means that line
separating such lot from the street. In the case of a corner lot, or double
frontage lot, FRONT LOT LINE means that line separating such lot from either
street.
      (2)   SIDE LOT LINE  Any lot line other than the front or rear lot line.
      (3)   REAR LOT LINE.  The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet along lying farthest
from the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal distance measured between the side lot lines, and
along the minimum building setback line.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot, the dimensions of which are recorded in a document or
shown on a map on file in the office of the Recorder of Richland or Huron
County, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the deed to which has been
recorded in a document or on a map in the office of the Recorder of Richland or
Huron County, Ohio.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE.  A street which is intended to move large volumes of
traffic from one part of the village to another part or beyond the village
limits. A major thoroughfare may be designated as a freeway, expressway,
limited access highway, parkway or equivalent terms to describe the major
thoroughfare plan for the village. Any street with a minimum right-of-way width
of 120 feet shall be considered as a major thoroughfare.
   MASTER PLAN.  The Comprehensive Plan including graphic and written proposals
indicating the general location for streets, parks, schools, public buildings
and all physical development of the village, including any part of such plan or
amendments thereto.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT.  Any self-propelled or nonself-propelled vehicle
used or so designated, constructed, reconstructed or added to in such a manner
as will permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or
more persons, and to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public
streets and highways.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  Any parcel of land upon which mobile homes are parked for
dwelling or sleeping purposes.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING.  A building lawfully existing at the time of the
enactment of this chapter and which does not conform to the area and height
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A use lawfully existing at the time of the enactment of
this chapter, and which does not conform to the use provisions of the district
in which it is located.
   OFF STREET PARKING LOT.  A facility providing vehicular parking spaces along
with adequate drives and aisles, for maneuvering and providing access for
entrance and exit so as to provide for the parking of more than two vehicles.
   OPEN SPACE.  Any part of a lot which is in its natural state, open and
unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky.
   OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT.  Any subdivision of land containing more than ten
acres where both individual building sites and common property devoted to
parks, playgrounds or school sites are designated and organized to be capable
of satisfactory use and operation as a self-contained residential area.
   PARKING SPACE.  An area of definite length and width, exclusive of aisles
and drives or entrances giving access thereto, and fully accessible for the
storage of permitted motor vehicles.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  Any person, firm, corporation, governmental agency or board
authorized to furnish and furnishing under governmental regulations to the
public, electricity, gas, steam, telephone, telegraph or transportation.
   ROOM.  For the purpose of determining lot area requirements and density in a
multiple-family district, a living, dining and bedroom, equal to at least 80
square feet in area. A room shall not include the area in the kitchen, sanitary
facilities, utility rooms, corridors, hallways and storage. Plans presented
showing one, two or three bedroom units and including a den, library or other
extra rooms shall commit such extra rooms as a bedroom for the purpose of
computing density.
   SIGN.  Any card, cloth, paper, metal, wood, painted glass, plaster, stone or
other sign of any kind or character whatsoever which shall be used to attract
attention to any object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization or business. "Place" includes erecting, constructing, posting,
painting, printing, tacking, nailing, glueing, stocking, carving or fastening,
or making visible in any manner whatsoever. For the purposes of this chapter,
SIGN shall not include the flag, pennant, badge or insignia of any government,
religious, educational or similar organization.
   SIGN, BUSINESS.  A sign which directs attention to a product, business or
profession conducted upon the same premises.
   STORY.  That part of a building, including between the surface of one floor
and the surface of the next floor above or, if there is no floor above, then
the ceiling next above.
   STREET.  A right-of-way which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property and which has been dedicated or deeded to the public use and
accepted by the village.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected which requires location on or
below the ground; or attachment of something having a location on the ground.
   TEMPORARY USE OR BUILDING.  A use or building permitted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals to exist during periods of construction of the principal
building or use, or for special events.
   USE.  The principal purpose for which land or a building is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
   VARIANCE.  A modification of the strict terms of the relevant regulations
where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and where
owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the action
of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulations would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   YARDS.  The open spaces on the same lot as the principal building,
unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward and further defined as
follows:
      (1)   FRONT YARD.  An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the street right-of-
way line and the nearest point of the principal building.
      (2)   REAR YARD.  An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the nearest point of the principal building.
      (3)   SIDE YARD.  An open space between the side lot line and the
principal building, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width
of which is the minimum horizontal distance from the nearest point on the side
lot to the nearest point of the principal building.
   ZONING ORDINANCE or THIS CHAPTER.  Ordinance 26-82, passed December 28,
1982, as amended, which is codified as Chapter 154 of this code.
(`94 Code, § 1143.01)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 33-97, passed 12-
9-97)
§ 154.006  APPLICABILITY AND NON-APPLICABILITY TO THE VILLAGE'S ZONING
REGULATIONS TO LAND WITHIN THE CORPORATE LIMITS OF THE VILLAGE.
   This chapter applies to all land and to every structure lying within the
corporate limits of the village as those limits now exist or may hereinafter be
extended by annexation, except land owned by this village. Land owned by the
United States of America, the State of Ohio, Huron County, Richland County, New
Haven Township, Plymouth Township, the Plymouth Local School District or any
other political subdivision or any department or agency of any of them shall be
subject to this chapter except to the extent expressly exempted by law.
(Ord. 14-2010, passed 7-27-10)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND REGULATIONS
§ 154.015  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the village is hereby divided into the
following districts, each district being of such number, shape, kind and area
and of such common unity of purpose that are considered most suitable in
carrying out the purposes of this chapter.
   R-1 Residential District
   R-2 Residential District
   MH Mobile Home Park District
   MF Multiple Family Residential District
   B-1 General Business District
   B-2 Highway Service Business
   I-1 Light Industrial District
   I-2 Heavy Industrial District.
   Architectural District
(`94 Code, § 1153.01)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 30-2014, passed
12-23-14)
§ 154.016  ZONING DISTRICT MAPS.
   (A)   The boundaries of the districts established in §
154.015 are bounded and defined as shown on the Zoning Districts Map, which
accompanies this chapter, and such map with all notations, references and other
pertinent material shown thereon is hereby made a part of this chapter as if
fully described herein.
   (B)   The Zoning Districts Map shall be identified by the signatures of
Council, attested by the Village Fiscal Officer under the following words:
"This is to certify that this is the official Zoning Districts Map referred to
in §
154.016 of the Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Plymouth." (Include date of
adoption)
   (C)   Whenever changes are made in the district boundaries of this chapter,
such changes shall be made on the Zoning Districts Map after the amendment has
been approved by Council.
(`94 Code, § 1153.02)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.017  INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts as shown on the Zoning Districts Map, the following rules
shall apply:
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following plated lot lines shall
be construed to follow such lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the village
corporation lines shall be construed to follow such village limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following railroad lines shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streams, rivers or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) to (E) hereof shall be so construed. Distances not
specifically indicated on the Zoning Districts Map shall be determined by the
use of a scale shown on the map.
(`94 Code, § 1153.03)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.018  ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Any area annexed to the village shall conform to previous zoning until
specifically amended by Council. The Planning Commission shall recommend
appropriate zoning for such area within six months after the matter is referred
to the Commission by Council.
(`94 Code, § 1153.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.019  ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Wherever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by action of
Council and in a manner authorized by law, the zoning district adjoining each
side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the
center of such vacation and all areas included in the vacation shall then be
subject to the same use, area and height regulations of the extended district.
(`94 Code, § 1153.05)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.020  R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The R-1 Residential Districts are designed to accommodate a
density not to exceed three dwelling units per acre. The district would provide
for very low density residential development and thereby discourage
concentrated development in sections of rough terrain and in areas of the
village presently developed at a similar density.
   (B)   Permitted uses.  The following uses are permitted in the R-
1 Residential District:
      (1)   One-family dwelling units.
      (2)   Accessory uses as regulated in §
154.045.
      (3)   Automobile parking spaces as regulated by §§
154.060 and
154.061.
      (4)   Shall comply with the Subdivision Regulations.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses.  The following uses shall be permitted
subject to the conditions listed in §
154.189(C) and subject further to approval by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Cemeteries subject to statutory limitations and further subject to
§
154.189(C)(2)(a) to (c).
      (2)   Churches and other buildings for the purpose of religious worship
subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a) to (d).
      (3)   Home occupations subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(f).
      (4)   Public, parochial and other private elementary schools offering
courses in general education subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a), (b), (g) and (h).
      (5)   Public utility rights-of-way and pertinent structures subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a) and (i).
      (6)   Recreational uses other than those governmentally owned and/or
operated such as: swimming pools, golf courses, tennis clubs and riding
academies, subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a), (b), (g) and (j) to (1).
   (D)   Area and height regulations. 
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 12,500 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line: 70 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yard setback (per lot):
         (a)   Front yard: 30 feet.
         (b)   Each side yard: eight feet.
         (c)   Rear yard: 40 feet.
         (d)   Maximum building height: 30 feet above ground, with not more
than two stories of actual living space above ground (attics are not counted as
living space).
         (e)   Minimum first floor living area: 700 square feet.
(`94 Code, §§ 1155.01 - 1155.04 )  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 18-
96, passed 8-13-96; Am. Ord. 17-97, passed 6-10-97; Am. Ord. 2-2000, passed 3-
14-00; Am. Ord. 9-2012, passed 4-24-12)
§ 154.021  R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The R-2 Residential Districts are designed to accommodate a
population density not to exceed four one-family dwelling units or two two-
family dwelling units per acre. This density would be approximately the same as
that which presently exists in the built-up sections of the community. The
stated density and accompanying regulations would provide single-family
dwelling units for families desiring to live in smaller houses on small lots.
This district is also established to provide for a more orderly extension of
public utilities encouraging medium density development in areas adjacent to
areas proposed for intensive development.
   (B)   Permitted uses.  The following uses are permitted in the R-
2 Residential District:
      (1)   One-family dwelling units.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling units.
      (3)   Automobile parking spaces as regulated in §§
154.060 and
154.061.
      (4)   Comply with the Subdivision Regulations.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses.  The following uses shall be permitted
subject to the conditions listed in §
154.189(C) and subject further to approval by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Cemeteries subject to statutory limitations and further subject to
§
154.189(C)(2)(a) to (c).
      (2)   Churches and other buildings for the purpose of religious worship
subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a) to (d).
      (3)   Home occupations subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(f).
      (4)   Public, parochial and other private elementary schools offering
courses in general education subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a), (b), (g) and (h).
      (5)   Public utility rights-of-way and pertinent structures subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a) and (i).
      (6)   Recreational uses other than those governmentally owned and/or
operated such as swimming pools, golf courses, tennis clubs and riding
academies, subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a), (b), (g) and (j) to (l).
      (7)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(o) and subject further to the following provision: that no such
conditional use shall be permitted in this district, unless approved, in
writing, by the owners of record, at the time the application for conditional
use is made to the Planning Commission, of all property adjacent to the
property for which the conditional use permit is sought.
   (D)   Area and height regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 9,100 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and minimum building setback line: 70 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yard setback (per lot):
         (a)   Front yard: 30 feet.
         (b)   Each side yard: eight feet.
         (c)   Rear yard: 40 feet.
      (4)   Maximum building height: 30 feet above ground, with not more than
two stories of actual living space above ground (attics are not counted as
living space).
      (5)   Minimum first floor living area: 700 square feet.
(`94 Code, §§ 1157.01 - 1157.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 18-96,
passed 8-13-96; Am. Ord. 16-97, passed 6-10-97; Am. Ord. 17-98, passed 8-11-98;
Am. Ord. 3-2000, passed 3-14-00)
§ 154.022  MF MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of Multiple Family Residential Districts is to
provide sites for multiple family dwellings which will generally serve as zones
of transition between nonresidential districts and lower density one-family
residential districts. The Multiple Family District is further provided to
serve the limited needs for the apartment-type dwelling unit in an otherwise
medium density one-family residential community.
   (B)   Permitted uses.  The following uses shall be permitted subject to the
review and approval of a site plan by the Planning Commission. Site plan review
is required between various development features, and further, to reduce the
effects such developments may have on adjacent land uses, that is service
roads, driveways, parking spaces and areas, accessory buildings or uses and
open space areas.
      (1)   One-family dwellings.
      (2)   Two-family dwelling units.
      (3)   Multiple-family dwelling units (two stories or less) subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   A four-foot, six-inch high obscuring fence or wall and a 20-foot
wide greenbelt shall be provided on those side or rear yards abutting a one-
family residential development. Whenever a greenbelt or planting is required,
it shall be planted within six months from the date of issuance of a
certificate of occupancy. Such fences and screening devices shall not have any
openings for vehicular traffic or other purposes, except those openings as may
be required by the Zoning Inspector.
         (b)   No side yards are required along the interior side lot lines of
the district, provided walls of structures facing such interior side lines do
not contain windows, or other openings; otherwise, the side yard width shall be
based on the requirements governing density in division (D) of this section.
         (c)   Ingress and egress to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for
multiple-family development shall not be across land zoned for R Residential
use.
         (d)   Each entrance and exit to and from any off-street parking lot
shall be located at least 25 feet distant from adjacent property located in an
R Residential District.
         (e)   The off-street parking areas shall be provided with a continuous
and obscuring fence or wall not less than four feet six inches in height
measured from the surface of the parking area. The fence or wall shall be
provided on all sides where the next zoning district is designated as an R
Residential District.
         (f)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall
never be changed to any other use unless and until equal parking facilities are
provided elsewhere.
         (g)   The entire area of the site shall be treated so as to service
only the residents of the multiple-family development; and any accessory
buildings, uses or services shall be developed solely for the use of residents
of the main building. Uses considered herein as accessory uses shall include
parking structures, swimming pools, recreation areas, pavilions, cabanas and
other uses similar in character and nature to the above listed accessory uses.
      (4)   Comply with the Subdivision Regulations.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses.  The following uses shall be permitted
subject to the conditions listed in §
154.189(C) and subject further to approval by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Churches and other buildings for the purpose of religious worship
subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a) to (d).
      (2)   Public utility rights-of-way and pertinent structures subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(a) and (i).
      (3)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(o).
      (4)   Institutions for medical care: hospitals, clinics, sanitariums,
convalescent homes, nursing homes, homes for the aged and philanthropic
institutions subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(p).
   (D)   Area and height regulations.
      (1)   Two-family dwelling units.
         (a)   Minimum lot area:  8,000 square feet.
         (b)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line: 80 feet.
         (c)   Minimum yard setback (per lot):
            1.   Front yard: 25 feet.
            2.   Each side yard: 5 feet.
            3.   Rear yard: 30 feet.
         (d)   Maximum building height: 25 feet.
         (e)   Minimum first floor living area: 500 square feet.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwelling units.
         (a)   Maximum density requirements:
            1.   In a Multiple Family Residential District, the total number of
rooms of 80 square feet or more (not including kitchen and sanitary facilities)
shall not be more than the area of the parcel, in square feet, divided by
1,200, divided by the required room assignment. The formula for computing the
maximum allowable density per acre is as follows: Maximum Allowable Density per
Acre equals Area of Parcel (in square feet) divided by 1,200, divided by
Required Room Assignment.  The following required room assignments shall govern
in computing the maximum allowable density per acre:
               a.   One bedroom equals Room Assignment 2; maximum density per
acre 18.1.
               b.   Two bedroom equals Room Assignment 3; maximum density per
acre 12.1.
               c.   Three bedroom equals Room Assignment 4; maximum density per
acre 9.0.
               d.   Four bedroom equals Room Assignment 5; maximum density per
acre 7.2.
               e.   Plans presented showing bedroom units and including a den,
library or other special purpose rooms shall count such extra room as a bedroom
for the purpose of computing the maximum allowable density per acre.
            2.   The area used for computing the maximum allowable density per
acre shall be the total site area exclusive of any dedicated public right-of-
way of either interior or bounding roads.
            3.   All units shall have at least one living room and one bedroom,
except that not more than (10%) of the units may be an efficiency apartment
unit.
         (b)   Minimum yard setback:
            1.   Minimum yards shall be equal to the height of the building;
however, in no case shall the minimum front, side or rear yard setback be less
than 80 feet.
            2.   Front, side and rear yard requirements do not include the
spacing between buildings for two or more buildings on the same parcel. In such
cases, the minimum distance between any two buildings shall be regulated
according to the length and height of such buildings, and in no instance shall
this distance be less than 30 feet. Areas devoted to off-street parking,
drives, aisles and maneuvering lanes shall not cover more than 30% of the area
of any required yard or required minimum distance between buildings.
(`94 Code, §§ 1159.01 - 1159.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.023  MH MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Other applicable regulations.  Refer to §§
152.20 through
152.36 in the Code, which are also applicable hereto.
   (B)   Sale of mobile homes.  No space shall be provided on the site of a
mobile home park for the sale of mobile homes.
   (C)   House trailer and mobile home defined.  As used in this chapter, HOUSE
TRAILER and MOBILE HOME mean any nonself-propelled vehicle so designed,
constructed, reconstructed or added to by means of accessories in such manner
as will permit the use and occupancy thereof for human habitation, when
connected to indicated utilities, whether resting on wheels, jacks or other
temporary foundation and used or so constructed as to permit its being conveyed
upon the public streets or highways.
   (D)   Use outside of park prohibited; exception.  No house trailer, mobile
home, recreational vehicle, motor home or similar vehicle shall be used outside
of a permitted mobile home park to provide living quarters or space for the
conduct of a business, except that a house trailer may be used as a temporary
accessory building during the construction of a principal building on the
issuance of a temporary permit by the Mayor.
   (E)   Parking of trailers.  The parking of a house trailer, boat trailer
and/or boat trailer, mobile home, recreational vehicle, motor home or other
similar vehicle outside of a permitted park for such purpose for 48 hours or
longer is prohibited, except that an uninhabited boat, trailer, recreational
vehicle or motor vehicle can be parked indefinitely on any lot in back of the
existing building line but not closer than ten feet from any inhabited portion
of any neighboring building.
(`94 Code, §§ 1161.01 - 1161.05)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.024  B-1 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The General Business District makes provisions for a
shopping area of regional significance where concentrations of comparison
shopping facilities, financial and business services may be found in quantity.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   The following retail business and service establishments shall be
permitted providing such uses deal directly with the consumer, client and
customer:
         (a)   Personal service establishments including repair shops (radio,
shoes, television, etc.) tailor shops, barber shops and beauty parlors,
photography stores, laundry and dry cleaning agencies (including but not
limited to the above).
         (b)   Retail business establishments, including but not limited to,
grocery stores and meat markets, dairy stores, dry goods and hardware and other
garden supplies, food and beverage stores, except those having the character of
a “drive-in.”
         (c)   Professional service establishments, including but not limited
to: offices for doctors, dentists and osteopaths.
      (2)   Department stores and supermarkets.
      (3)   Clothing, apparel and variety stores.
      (4)   Preparation and processing of food and drink to be retailed on the
premises including bakery, delicatessen, restaurant, ice cream parlor and
tavern.
      (5)   Florist shop and garden sales.
      (6)   Hardware and paint sales.
      (7)   Art, stationary, notion, toy and gift sales.
      (8)   Business schools or private schools operated for profit.
      (9)   Commercial recreational uses whose principal activity is located
within an enclosed building and including: bowling alley, indoor archery range,
billiard hall, skating rink and similar forms of indoor recreational
activities.
      (10)   Post office and similar governmental office buildings, serving
persons living in adjacent residential areas.
      (11)   Mortuary and funeral home.
      (12)   Hotels.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses.  The following uses shall be permitted
subject to the conditions listed in §
154.189(C) and subject further to the approval by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Gasoline service stations subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(q).
      (2)   Retail sales of garden equipment and plant materials located
outside and beyond the walls of a structure subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(r).
      (3)   Veterinary hospitals and clinics subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(t).
   (D)   Area and height regulations.
   Minimum yard setback:
      (1)   Front yard: 30 feet.
      (2)   Each side yard: 30 feet where the side yard abuts onto a
residential district and on the side adjacent to the residential district only.
      (3)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
      (4)   Maximum height regulations: 40 feet.
   (E)   Prohibited uses.  Residential use, within this district, of the ground
and/or basement levels of any nonresidential structure, except as permitted by
division (B)(12) above of this section, is specifically prohibited. Residential
use of any levels above ground level shall be permitted as a conditional use,
subject to compliance with all village, county and state building and safety
requirements and such restrictions as may be imposed by the Fire Chief and
approved by Council.
(`94 Code, §§ 1163.01 - 1163.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 32-97,
passed 12-9-97; Am. Ord. 10-99, passed 4-27-99; Am. Ord. 5-2002, passed 2-14-
02)
§ 154.025  B-2 HIGHWAY SERVICE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The Highway Service Business Districts are designed to
provide for uses in addition to those specified within the General Business
District. This District shall permit uses which, due to their individual
characteristics, would be better located outside the primary retail centers of
the community. The District also provides for highway service-type facilities
primarily aimed at servicing the traveling public.
   (B)   Permitted uses.  The following uses are permitted within the B-
2 Highway Service Business District:
      (1)   Gasoline service stations.
      (2)   Eating and drinking establishments.
      (3)   Restaurants, or other places serving food or beverages, and having
the characteristics of a “drive-in.”
      (4)   Passenger-transportation agency and terminal.
      (5)   New and used car, mobile home and trailer salesroom or office.
      (6)   Car wash, when completely enclosed within a building.
      (7)   Other highway service business uses similar in character to the
above permitted uses.
      (8)   Accessory uses as regulated by §§
154.040 through
154.045.
      (9)   Parking and loading as regulated by §§
154.060 and
154.061.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses.  The following uses shall be permitted
subject to the conditions listed in §
154.189(C) and subject further to the approval by the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Outdoor sales space for the exclusive sale of new or secondhand
automobiles, house trailers or rental of trailers and/or automobiles, subject
to §
154.189(C)(2)(g) and (n).
      (2)   Motels, subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(s).
      (3)   Retail sales of plant material not grown on the site, and sales of
lawn furniture, playground equipment and garden supplies, subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(r).
   (D)   Area and height regulations.
      (1)   Minimum yard setback:
         (a)   Front yard: 40 feet.
         (b)   Each side and rear yard: 35 feet when adjacent to a residential
district and on the side adjacent to the residential district only, otherwise,
the minimum side yard and rear yard depth shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   Maximum building height: 35 feet.
   (E)   Prohibited uses.  Residential use, within this district, of the ground
and/or basement levels of any nonresidential structure, except as permitted by
division (C)(2) above of this section, is specifically prohibited.
(`94 Code, §§ 1165.01 - 1165.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 11-99,
passed 4-27-99) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.026  I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The I-1 Light Industrial Districts are designed to
accommodate uses which provide repair, storage, manufacturing, processing,
wholesaling and distribution facilities and whose external physical effects are
restricted to the area of the District. The uses permitted are such that they
will not have an undesirable or detrimental effect on adjacent residential or
business districts and because of their nature, products and processes require
locations separate from establishments which process or manufacture new
material.
   (B)   Permitted uses.  The following uses are permitted in the I-1 Light
Industrial District.
      (1)   The following basic research, design and experimental firms when
conducted within a completely enclosed building:
         (a)   Pharmaceuticals, electrical instruments and devices.
         (b)   Processing of experimental film, or testing, providing no
operations shall be conducted or equipment used which would create hazards or
noxious or offensive conditions.
      (2)   The manufacturing, compounding, processing and assembly of the
following products when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building
having no openings on those sides of the lot where the adjacent districts are
zoned for residential use.
         (a)   Bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, toiletries and food products;
except fish, sauerkraut, yeast and the refining or rendering of fats and oils.
         (b)   Products from the following previously prepared materials: bone,
canvas, cloth, cellophane, cork, feather, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather,
plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, sheet metal, shell,
textiles, tobacco, wool and yarns.
         (c)   Musical instruments, toys, novelties, rubber or metal stamps and
other small rubber molded products.
         (d)   Electrical appliances, television sets, radios, phonographs,
household appliances.
         (e)   Tool, die, garage and machine shops.
      (3)   Warehouse, storage and transfer facilities, gas and electrical
service buildings. Water supply and sewage disposal plants, water and gas
tanks. Railroad transfer and storage tracks and freight terminal facilities.
      (4)   Building materials, sales yards and lumber yards provided all
materials are located within a building or within an area enclosed on all sides
by an obscuring fence or wall six feet in height. The extent of such wall or
fence may be determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (5)   Accessory uses as regulated in §§
154.040 through
154.045.
      (6)   Parking and loading as regulated in §§
154.060 and
154.061.
   (C)   Conditionally permitted uses.  The following uses shall be permitted
subject to the conditions listed in §
154.189(C)and subject further to the approval by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Restaurants or other places serving food or beverages except those
having the nature of a “drive-in,” subject to §
154.189(C)(2)(t).
      (2)   Mini-storage units.
      (3)   One-family dwelling units.
         (a)   Residential R-1 area and height regulations shall apply.
         (b)   A greenbelt of 20 feet shall be provided on those sides abutting
any existing industrial land use.
   (D)   Area and height regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 20,500 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width at minimum building setback line: 100 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yard setback:
         (a)   Front yard: 50 feet.
         (b)   Each side yard and rear yard: each side yard and the rear yard
shall be equal to at least the height of the average of the various heights of
the industrial masses, excluding towers and chimneys. Where a side or rear yard
abuts onto a residential district, such yard shall in no case be less than 100
feet. An obscuring fence or wall six feet in height and a 20-foot greenbelt
shall be provided along those side or rear yards which abut onto a residential
district.
         (c)   Maximum building height: 50 feet.
(`94 Code, §§ 1167.01 - 1167.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 5-
2000, passed 3-14-00; Am. Ord. 6-2020, passed 9-8-20) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.027  I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The I-2 Heavy Industrial Districts are designed to
accommodate industrial uses in the fields of manufacturing, processing and
fabricating, including large scale industrial operations whose external
physical effects may be felt by uses located in residential and business
districts. The I-2 District is regulated to be exclusively used for industrial
purposes free from encroachment by residential or business development. The
uses listed herein are intended to permit the manufacture, processing and
compounding of semifinished and finished products from raw materials.
   (B)   Permitted uses.  The following uses are permitted within the I-2 Heavy
Industrial District:
      (1)   Any of the uses permitted in an I-1 Light Industrial District.
      (2)   Contractors' equipment storage yard or plant, or storage and rental
of equipment commonly used by contractors.
      (3)   Storage and sale of grain and livestock feed, provided dust is
effectively controlled during all operation.
      (4)   Pottery and figurines using previously pulverized clay, and kiln-
fired only with gas or electricity.
      (5)   Welding or other metal-working or molding shop employing
reciprocating hammers and presses.
      (6)   Bag, carpet and rug cleaning, provided equipment is installed and
operated for the effective precipitation of dust.
      (7)   Foundry, casting lightweight nonferrous metals.
      (8)   Ice manufacturing or cold storage plant.
      (9)   Laundry, cleaning and dyeing plant.
      (10)   Automobile manufacturing or assembly.
      (11)   Boiler shops or structural steel fabricating shops.
      (12)   Brick, tile and terra cotta manufacturing.
      (13)   Cement, bituminous or asphaltic concrete mixing.
      (14)   Meat packing, including the slaughtering of animals.
      (15)   Stone and monument work employing power-driven tools.
      (16)   Accessory uses as regulated by §§
154.040 through
154.045.
      (17)   Parking and loading as regulated by §§
154.060 and
154.061.
   (C)   Area and height regulations.
      (1)   Minimum yard setback.
         (a)   Front yard: 50 feet.
         (b)   Each side yard and rear yard: each side and rear yard shall be
equal to at least the height of the average of the industrial masses, excluding
towers and chimneys. Where a side yard or rear yard abuts onto a residential
district, such yard shall in no case be less than 150 feet. An obscuring fence
or wall six feet in height and a 20-foot greenbelt shall be provided along
those side or rear yards which abut onto a residential district.
      (2)   Maximum building height. 100 feet.
(`94 Code, §§ 1169.01 - 1169.03)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 10-95,
passed 4-11-95; Am. Ord. 4-2000, passed 3-14-00)
§ 154.028  ARCHITECTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to maintain a high character
of community development, to protect and preserve property, to promote the
stability of property values and to protect real estate from impairment or
destruction of value for the general community welfare by regulating the
exterior architectural characteristics of structures throughout the hereinafter
defined Architectural District. It is the further purpose of this section to
recognize and preserve the distinctive historical and architectural character
of this community which has been greatly influenced by the architecture of an
earlier period in this community’s history. These purposes will be served by
the regulation of exterior design, use of materials, the finish grade line,
landscaping and orientation of all structures hereinafter altered, constructed,
reconstructed, erected, enlarged or remodeled in the hereinafter defined
Architectural District.
   (B)   District boundaries. There is hereby established an Architectural
District which shall include all lots and land within the District described by
Railroad Street as its western boundary, then north to Dix Street, then
easterly to Sandusky Street, then southerly to Spring Street, then easterly to
Portner Street, then southerly to the first east/west alley being south and
parallel to East Broadway Street then running parallel to West Broadway Street
to Railroad Street, being the point of beginning and as fully described by the
District map which is attached to Ordinance 30-2014 as Exhibit A.
   (C)   Application and notice.
      (1)   Whenever a structure, as defined by this Code of Ordinances,
whether public or private, within the above-described District is proposed to
be constructed or erected and whenever an existing structure is proposed to be
altered, reconstructed, enlarged or remodeled, if such alteration,
reconstruction, enlargement or remodeling involves the exterior design,
material, finish grade line, landscaping or orientation of the structure, an
application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be filed with the
Village Administrator.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by a line drawing indicating,
at a minimum, the lot dimensions, size, shape and dimensions of the structure,
the location and orientation of the structure on the lot and the actual or
proposed building setback lines. In addition, the application shall be
accompanied by a detailed narrative description of the proposed design or
change of design, use of materials, finish grade line, landscaping and
orientation of the structure. Applications for structures to be constructed or
remodeled, which remodeling would increase or decrease the total gross building
area by 50% or more, shall be accompanied by a colored elevation showing, at a
minimum, the design, use of materials, finish grade line, landscaping and
orientation of buildings. In addition, the Board of Architectural Review may
require the submission of colored perspectives or architectural renderings.
      (3)   (a)   Upon receipt of an application for a certificate of
appropriateness, which is accompanied by the material required by the
provisions of subsection (C)(2) hereof, the Village Administrator shall
schedule a hearing on the application, which shall be held at the next regular
Board meeting occurring more than 14 days after the application is filed or at
such special meeting called for this purpose. The 14 day requirement herein may
be waived by the Board for good cause shown.
         (b)   At the hearing, all testimony shall be received under oath or
affirmation, a verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept, the
application shall be allowed upon application and deposit of fees to the
issuance of subpoenas for the attendance of witnesses, and all testimony shall
be subject to cross-examination.
         (c)   The Board shall render its decision within a reasonable time
after the hearing, not to exceed 60 days, and advise the applicant in writing
thereof.
         (d)   In addition, there shall be a notice posted on the subject
property stating that an application has been filed and the date of the
hearing.
   (D)   Board of Architectural Review. The Village Planning Commission shall
act as the Board of Architectural Review when considering any application for a
certificate of appropriateness.
   (E)   Standards for review: Certificate of Appropriateness.
      (1)   The Board of Architectural Review, in deciding whether to issue a
certificate of appropriateness, shall determine that the application under
consideration promotes, preserves and enhances the distinctive historical
village character of the community and would not be at variance with existing
structures within that portion of the District in which the structure is or is
proposed to be located as to be detrimental to the interests of the District as
set forth in this section. In conducting its review, the Board shall make
examination of and give consideration to the elements of the application,
including but not necessarily limited to:
         (a)   Height, which shall include the requirements of §
154.085.
         (b)   Building massing, which shall include in addition to the
requirements of §
154.085, the relationship of the building width to its height and depth, and
its relationship to the viewer’s and pedestrian’s visual perspective.
         (c)   Window treatment, which shall include the size, shape and
materials of the individual window units and the overall harmonious
relationship to window openings.
         (d)   Exterior detail and relationships, which shall include all
projecting and receding elements of the exterior, including but not limited to
porches and overhangs and the horizontal or vertical expression which is
conveyed by these elements.
         (e)   Roof shape, which shall include type, form and materials.
         (f)   Materials: texture and color, which shall include a
consideration of material compatibility among various elements of the
structure.
         (g)   Compatibility of design and details, which shall include the
appropriateness of the use of exterior design details.
         (h)   Landscape design and plant materials, which shall include, in
addition to the requirements of this Code of Ordinances, lighting and the use
of landscape details to highlight architectural features or screen or soften
undesirable views.
         (i)   Pedestrian environment, which shall include the provision of
features which enhance pedestrian movement and environment and which relate to
the pedestrian’s visual perspective.
         (j)   Signage, which shall include, in addition to requirement of §§
154.120 et seq., the appropriateness of signage to the building.
      (2)   In conducting its inquiry and review, the Board may request from
the applicant such additional information, sketches and data as it shall
reasonably require. It may call upon experts and specialists for testimony and
opinion regarding the matters under examination. It may recommend to the
applicant changes in the plans that it considers desirable and may accept a
voluntary amendment to the application to include or reflect such changes. The
Board shall keep a record of its proceedings and shall append to the
application copies of information, sketches and data needed to clearly describe
any amendment to it.
      (3)   When its review is concluded, the Board will determine by a vote of
its members whether the application for a certificate of appropriateness shall
be approved. If approved by three or more of its members, the Board shall
return the application and appended material to the Village Administrator with
the instruction that the certificate of appropriateness be issued, provided all
other requirements for a building permit, if applicable, are met. If not
approved, the Board shall return the application and appended material to the
applicant with a notice that the certificate of appropriateness shall not be
issued because the application did not meet the criteria and standards set
forth herein.
   (F)   Preservation of property upon demolition of a structure.
      (1)   Whenever a structure within the District is proposed to be
demolished, an application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be filed
with the Village Administrator as provided in this section. In considering such
application, the Board of Architectural Review shall limit its inquiry to the
proposal for grading, landscaping and other design treatment of the property
once the structure has been removed.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the
demolition of a structure, whether public or private, within the District.
   (G)   Repair or maintenance exception. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to prevent any ordinary repair or maintenance of an exterior
architectural feature or any ordinary planting and landscaping now in the
District.
(Ord. 30-2014, passed 12-23-14)
NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 154.040  SCOPE.
   No building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land
be used, designed or arranged for any purpose, except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 1171.01)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.041  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the eventual and equitable
elimination of nonconforming lots, nonconforming uses of land and nonconforming
structures which do not conform to the provisions of this chapter, but which
were in operation prior to the enactment of the Zoning Ordinance. Nonconforming
lots, uses and structures are declared to be incompatible with the permitted
uses in the district involved. It is further the purpose of this chapter that
nonconforming lots, uses and structures of land shall not be enlarged upon,
extended nor be used as a basis for adding other structures or uses prohibited
in the same district.
(`94 Code, § 1171.02)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.042  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nonconforming Lots. In any one-family or multiple-family district,
one-family and two-family dwellings may be erected on any single lot of record
existing at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter; even
though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width or both that
are generally applicable in the district; providing the yard dimensions and
other requirements not involving the area and width of the lot shall conform to
the regulations for the district in which such lot is located. The Board of
Zoning Appeals may grant a variance where the strict application of the
provisions of this chapter would result in practical or unnecessary hardships
in complying with the minimum yard requirements for the district in which such
lot is located.
   (B)   Nonconforming Use of Land. The lawful use of any land existing at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter may be continued
although such use does not conform with the regulations of this chapter
providing the following provisions are met:
      (1)   A nonconforming use shall not be extended, enlarged or increased to
occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of this
chapter. The extensions of a lawful use to any portion of a nonconforming
structure which existed prior to the enactment of this chapter, shall not be
deemed to be the extension of such nonconforming use.
      (2)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been discontinued for a period of
two years or more, such discontinuance shall be considered as conclusive
evidence of an intention to abandon legally the nonconforming use. At the end
of the two-year period, any subsequent use of land shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter for the district in which such land is located.
      (3)   Nonconforming uses existing and established after the effective
date of this chapter shall be declared as illegal nonconforming uses and shall
be discontinued no more than 20 days following the date of inspection.
   (C)   Nonconforming Structures. A lawful structure existing at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter may be continued although such
structure does not conform to the area, height or yard provisions of this
chapter, providing the following provisions are met:
      (1)   A nonconforming structure may not be altered or enlarged which
increases its nonconformity.
      (2)   A nonconforming use destroyed or damaged by fire, collapse,
explosion or other acts of God to an extent of more than 100% of its
replacement cost, exclusive of the foundation at the time of destruction shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Should such structure be moved or transported for any reason and
for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the provisions for
the district in which it is located after it is removed.
   (D)   Nonconforming Use of Structures and Land. The lawful use of a
structure or of structure and land existing at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this chapter may be continued although such use does not
conform to the regulations of this chapter providing the following provisions
are met:
      (1)   Whenever a nonconforming use of a structure and land in combination
have been discontinued six consecutive months or for 18 months during any
three-year period, the structure and premises in combination shall not be
reestablished or used except in conformance with the provisions of the district
in which it is located.
      (2)   Any nonconforming use of a structure and land in combination may be
changed to another nonconforming use of the same or more restrictive
classification than the existing nonconforming use by the Zoning Board of
Appeals. In permitting such a change, the Board may require that the more
restrictive nonconforming use meet certain conditions and requirements in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Where a nonconforming structure and use exist, the removal or
destruction of the structure shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the
land.
(`94 Code, § 1171.03)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.043  REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring
to a safe condition any building or structure or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by an official charged with protecting the general health, safety and
public welfare of the community.
   (B)   Ordinary repairs and the replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures,
wiring or plumbing may be done on any building or part thereof devoted to a
nonconforming use provided the cubic content of the building as it existed at
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter shall not be
increased.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the completion or construction
and use of a nonconforming building for which a zoning certificate has been
issued prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter,
provided construction is commenced within 30 days after the issuance of
certificate; and that the entire building or structure shall have been
completed within one year from the date such zoning certificate was issued.
(`94 Code, § 1171.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.044  EXEMPT NONCONFORMING USES.
   Where a special exception or conditional use certificate has been granted
for any use as provided in this chapter, such use shall not be classified as a
nonconforming use, but shall be classified as a conforming use within the
district in which it is located.
(`94 Code, § 1171.05)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.045  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES.
   Accessory buildings and uses permitted in this chapter shall be subject to
the following conditions:
   (A)   An accessory building attached to the principal building shall comply
with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the main building.
   (B)   Detached accessory buildings shall not occupy more than 10% of any
required yard, except the rear yard.
   (C)   Detached accessory buildings shall not be located closer than eight
feet from any required side or rear lot line.
   (D)   Within an R or MF District, no accessory building shall exceed one
story or 20 feet in height.
   (E)   Accessory buildings located on a corner lot shall not be permitted to
project beyond the minimum front yard depth facing both streets.
(`94 Code, § 1171.06)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.060  OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS.
   In all districts, in conjunction with the erection or enlargement of every
building or structure, off-street parking space shall be provided with adequate
access to each space. In connection with all permitted uses, off-street parking
spaces shall be provided before a certificate of occupancy is issued, and shall
further be constructed in accordance with the following regulations.
   (A)   General Regulations.
      (1)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall never
be converted, changed or occupied by another building, structure or use of land
until equal facilities are provided elsewhere.
      (2)   Land area designated for off-street parking facilities shall be
used solely for the parking of vehicles and no commercial repair work, storage
or service of any kind shall be conducted on all or any part of such parking
lot.
      (3)   Any use not specifically mentioned shall provide minimum off-street
parking facilities in accordance with the requirements established for a use
which is similar in type and nature.
   (B)   Minimum Number of Off-Street Spaces Required.
      (1)   Residential uses.
         (a)   One-family and two-family: two per dwelling unit.
         (b)   Multiple Family: two and one-half per dwelling unit.
         (c)   Trailer Court: two for each trailer site and one for each
employee of the trailer park.
      (2)   Business uses.
         (a)   Planned shopping center located within any B District: three
spaces per every 100 square feet of usable floor area.
         (b)   Business and professional offices, banks, except any of the uses
indicated in division (B)(2)(c) below of this section, one for each 100 square
feet of useable floor area.
         (c)   Doctors' and dentists' offices: three for each 100 square feet
of useable floor area in the waiting room and one for each examining room or
operating room or dental chair activity area.
         (d)   Establishments for the sale and consumption on the premises of
food, alcoholic beverages or refreshments: three for each 100 square feet of
useable floor area.
         (e)   Retail stores, supermarkets, bakeries, etc.: three for each 100
square feet of useable floor area.
         (f)   Indoor movie theaters: one for each three seats plus one for
each two employees.
         (g)   Furniture stores, appliance stores, hardware stores, showrooms
for an electrician, carpenter, shoe repair and other similar uses: three for
each 800 square feet of useable floor area plus one space for each two
employees.
         (h)   Bowling alleys: five for each bowling alley plus one for each
employee plus the minimum requirements as stated in division (B)(2)(d) and (m)
hereof.
         (i)   Business and technical schools: one for each one teacher,
employee or administrator and one for each two students.
         (j)   Dance halls, skating rinks, private clubs and other assembly
halls without fixed seats: One for each two persons allowed within the maximum
occupancy load.
         (k)   Funeral homes and mortuary establishments: 15 per chapel room or
parlor.
         (l)   Hotels, motels: one for each one sleeping room and one for each
employee.
         (m)   Miniature par “3" golf courses and driving ranges: two for each
hole or two for each “teeshot” area.
         (n)   Billiard parlors, sports or amusement centers: three for each
200 square feet of useable floor area.
      (3)   Industrial uses.
         (a)   Industrial, research and storage establishments: one space per
employee; the total number of spaces being determined on the total number of
employees on any two consecutive shifts having the largest number of employees.
         (b)   Wholesale establishments: five plus one for every one employee
in the largest working shift.
      (4)   Institutional uses.
         (a)   Auditorium, stadium, sports arena and similar uses: one for each
three seats or six feet of benches, temporarily or permanently provided, plus
one for each employee.
         (b)   Churches and temples: one for each three seats or six feet of
benches, temporarily or permanently provided, plus one for each employee.
         (c)   Hospitals and nurses' training school: one for each one bed and
one for each employee and doctor serving the hospital.
         (d)   Convalescent homes, children's homes and homes for the aged: one
for each three beds, plus one for each employee.
         (e)   Elementary and junior high schools: one for each one teacher,
employee and administrator plus the minimum requirements stated for an
auditorium in division (B)(4)(a) hereof for an auditorium.
         (f)   Senior high school: one for each one teacher, employee,
administrator, and one for every 50 students plus the minimum requirements
stated in (d) above for an auditorium.
         (g)   Golf courses other than a miniature par “3" golf course: four
for each hole or green plus one for every one employee.
         (h)   Private and municipal swimming pools, tennis clubs or other
similar uses: one for each two family members and one for each individual
membership.
   (C)   Supplementary Parking Space Requirements for Specified Uses.
      (1)   One and two family districts. The required number of off-street
parking spaces shall be provided on the same lot as the building which they are
intended to serve.
      (2)   Multiple family districts.
         (a)   The area devoted to off-street parking drives, aisles and
maneuvering lanes within a Multiple Family Residential District shall not cover
more than 35% of the area of any required yard or any required minimum distance
between buildings.
         (b)   Ingress and egress to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for
multiple family development shall not be across land zoned for R-Residential
purposes.
      (3)   Business districts.
         (a)   Off-street parking shall be permitted to occupy a part of the
front yard after the parking plan layout, drives and aisles have been reviewed
and approved by the Planning Commission. A minimum front yard setback of ten
feet exclusive of drives and aisles and measured from the nearest point of the
off-street parking area and the nearest point of the street right-of-way line
shall be maintained.
         (b)   Off-street parking facilities shall be located on the same lot
or within 200 feet of the building it is intended to serve. The maximum
distance of 200 feet shall be measured from the nearest point of the building
to the nearest point of the off-street parking lot.
         (c)   Ingress and egress to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for
business purposes shall not be across land zoned for R-Residential purposes.
      (4)   Industrial districts.
         (a)   Parking shall be permitted in the side and rear yards. When
parking is planned for side and rear yards, the layout of drive, aisles and
maneuvering lanes shall be subject to review and approval by the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   Ingress and egress to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for
industrial purposes shall not be across land zoned for R-Residential purposes.
   (D)   Off-Street Parking Space Layout and Standards. Whenever the off-street
parking regulations indicated above require the construction of an off-street
parking facility, such parking lots shall be laid out, constructed and
maintained in accordance with the following regulations:
      (1)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be
prepared in accordance with the minimum requirements stated in the following
schedule:
         (a)   Parking angle at base line - 45 degrees; parking width - 8 feet
4 inches; space length - 20 feet; maneuvering lane width - 12 feet.
         (b)   Parking angle at base line - 60 degrees; parking width - 8 feet
6 inches; space length - 20 feet; maneuvering lane width - 15 feet.
         (c)   Parking angle at base line - 90 degrees; parking width - 9 feet;
space length - 20 feet; maneuvering lane width - 20 feet.
      (2)   Access into parking spaces shall be through means of maneuvering
lanes. Backing directly from a parking space onto a street is prohibited.
      (3)   Parking areas shall be of useable shape, improved with bituminous
concrete or equivalent surfacing material, and graded and drained to dispose of
all surface water accumulation.
      (4)   Maneuvering lanes shall be designated for one-way traffic movements
except that the ninety degree angle parking pattern shall permit two-way
traffic movements.
      (5)   Entrance and exit driveways shall be clearly limited and adequately
defined.
      (6)   All lighting used to illuminate such parking area shall be arranged
as to direct the lighting away from adjoining properties or streets and no open
light sources, such as flood lights or the stringing of light bulbs, shall be
permitted.
      (7)   Parking lots provided within an MF, B or I District shall be
provided with a continuous and obscuring fence of four feet in height measured
from the surface of the parking lot. Such fence shall be provided where the
side or rear lot lines abut onto a One-Family Residential District and on those
sides facing the residential district only.
(`94 Code, § 1173.01)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.061  OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   Adequate off-street loading and unloading space shall be provided for the
receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise to avoid undue
interference with public use of dedicated rights-of-way. Such space shall be
provided in accordance with the following regulations:
   (A)   All loading and unloading spaces shall be laid out in the dimension of
at least ten by 50 feet, or 500 square feet in area, with a clearance of no
less than 14 feet in height.
   (B)   Loading dock approaches shall be provided with a pavement having an
asphaltic or Portland cement binder so as to provide a permanent durable and
dustless surface.
   (C)   All loading and unloading spaces in B or I Districts shall be provided
in accordance with the following ratio of spaces to floor area:
      (1)   Gross floor area - 0 to 5,000; space required per square feet of
useable floor area - one space.
      (2)   Gross floor area - 5,001 to 20,000; space required per square feet
of useable floor area - one space plus one space for each 5,000 square feet in
excess of 5,001.
      (3)   Gross floor area - 20,001 to 100,000; space required per square
feet of useable floor area - one space plus one space for each 20,000 square
feet in excess of 20,001.
(`94 Code, § 1173.02)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
GENERAL ZONING REQUIREMENTS AND EXCEPTIONS
§ 154.075  TEMPORARY BUILDING AND STRUCTURES.
   Temporary building for uses incidental to construction work shall be
permitted for a period not to exceed one year.
(`94 Code, § 1175.01)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.076  CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS.
   The Planning Commission with the approval of Council shall have the power to
impose conditions to safeguard the intent and objectives of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 1175.02)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.077  SEWER AND WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The following minimum lot area and width requirements shall apply
where one-family dwellings are not served by centralized sewer and water
facilities:
      (1)   One-Family - lot area, 20,000 square feet; lot width, 100 feet.
      (2)   Two-Family - lot area, 30,000 square feet; lot width, 100 feet.
      (3)   Multiple Family - lot area*; lot width*.
   (B)   The following minimum lot area and width requirements shall apply
where one-family and two-family dwellings are served by either centralized
sewer or water facilities:
      (1)   One-Family - lot area, 15,000 square feet; lot width, 90 feet.
      (2)   Two-family - lot area, 20,000 square feet; lot width, 95 feet.
      (3)   Multiple Family - lot area*; lot width*.
* Subject to site plan review.
(`94 Code, § 1175.03)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.078  APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   No proposed plat of a new subdivision shall hereafter be approved unless the
lots within such plat equal or exceed the minimum lot area and width
requirements set forth in the various districts of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 1175.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.079  INCONSISTENCIES.
   In the event any of the requirements or regulatory provisions of this
chapter are found to be inconsistent one with the other, the more restrictive
or greater requirements shall be deemed in each case to be applicable.
(`94 Code, § 1175.05)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.080  DRAINAGE CHANNELS.
   Drainage channels that exist within the village are essential for the
maintenance of the health and general welfare of the people. Any encroachment
upon, filling or the destruction of channels is a violation of this chapter. In
order to provide for the development of the property for its best use, such as
new subdivisions, the Village Engineer shall decide what facilities are
adequate to maintain the primary purpose of the drainage channel.
(`94 Code, § 1175.06)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.081  CORNER LOTS.
   Corner lots in all districts are required to meet the minimum front yard
setbacks, facing both streets, as indicated in that district.
(`94 Code, § 1175.08)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.082  LOTS, YARDS AND OPEN SPACES.
   No space which for the proposed building, or dwelling group, has been
counted or calculated as part of a side yard, rear yard, front yard or other
open space required by this may, by reason of change in ownership or otherwise,
be counted or calculated to satisfy the yard or open space requirements of or
for any other buildings.
(`94 Code, § 1175.09)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.083  WATER WELL OR SEPTIC TANK SYSTEMS.
   Where individual water well or septic tank systems are provided, no building
permit or zoning certificate shall be issued without evidence that the Richland
or Huron County Health Department has approved the proposed sanitary sewage
disposal system for which the building permit or zoning certificate has been
requested.
(`94 Code, § 1175.10)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.084  AREA, YARD, HEIGHT AND USE EXCEPTIONS.
   The regulations and provisions of this chapter shall be subject to the
following exceptions (§§
154.085 through
154.092).
(`94 Code, § 1175.11)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.085  PERMITTED HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit hereinafter established for the
district in which the building is located, except that penthouses or roof
structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or
similar equipment required to operate and maintain a building and fire or
parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, state lofts and screens, flagpoles,
chimneys, radio and television aerials, smokestacks, wireless masts, water
tanks and similar structures may be erected above the maximum height limits
established herein. No such structure shall occupy more than 25% of the
building or be used for residential purposes.
(`94 Code, § 1175.12)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.086  ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by any law
of the state and other ordinances of the village, it being the intent of this
chapter to exempt such essential services from the application of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 1175.13)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.087  DWELLING QUARTERS IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Within any B Business District or I Industrial District, sleeping quarters
of a watchman or caretaker may be permitted providing such quarters are made a
part and are attached as part of the main building or structure.
(`94 Code, § 1175.14)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.088  PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   Open, enclosed and unenclosed porches or paced terraces may project not more
than ten feet within the minimum front yard setback line.
(`94 Code, § 1175.15)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.089  CONSTRUCTION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building upon which actual construction
was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this chapter and upon which actual
construction has been diligently carried on and provided further that such
building shall be completed within one year from the date of passage of this
chapter.
(`94 Code, § 1175.16)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.090  FRONT YARD VARIANCES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In any R Residential District where the average depth is at least two
existing front yards on lots located within 100 feet of the lot in question and
within the same block are less or greater than the minimum front yard setback
prescribed for the district in which such lots are located, the Board of Zoning
Appeals may modify the required front yard depth of such lot, providing it is
not less than the average depth of the two adjoining lots.
(`94 Code, § 1175.17)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.091  RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   For the purposes of this chapter, railroad rights-of-way shall be permitted
as authorized and regulated by state and federal laws, it being the intent of
this section to exempt railroad rights-of-way from the application of this
chapter. Buildings and structures intended to be erected or constructed within
the railroad right-of-way shall comply with the use, area and height
regulations of the district in which it is located. Spur tracks shall be
extended from the existing railroad right-of-way to adjacent industrial
districts only when they are totally within industrial districts.
(`94 Code, § 1175.18)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.092  GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   A limited number of garage sales are specifically and provisionally
permitted as accessory uses in all districts regulated by this chapter
permitting single- and multiple-family residences. In all such districts, three
garage sales at any one residence in any one calendar year shall be considered
to be permitted accessory uses under this chapter.
   (B)   GARAGE SALE as used in this subchapter, means any sale of goods that
have been acquired for personal, as opposed to business or commercial, use,
when such sale is conducted at a residential location and open to the general
public. GARAGE SALE  shall include sales commonly referred to as patio sales,
driveway sales, yard sales, porch sales and other such sales.
   (C)   One sign of no more than four square feet shall be permitted to be
displayed on the property of the residence where a garage sale is being
conducted pursuant to this section. Such signs shall be displayed only during
the times of the sales. In no case shall the sign be placed on any property
other than the property of the residence where the garage sale is being
conducted, without permission from the owner of the property.
   (D)   Not more than three garage sales shall be held in any one calendar
year at any one residence. Any one garage sale shall be limited to the daylight
hours of three consecutive days.
   (E)   All garage sales permitted by this section shall be conducted in
compliance with all laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations not in conflict
herewith, but no occupational license shall be required for a garage sale
specifically and provisionally permitted under this section.
(Ord. 18-99, passed 10-12-99) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.093  FENCING AND SCREENING DEVICES.
   (A)   Fences are permitted within any zoning district and may be required in
some district for screening purposes as specified in other subsections of this
section. The purpose of these regulations is to control the design and
installation of such fences to permit the lot owner to have the privilege of
privacy and flexibility in landscape design on his or her own lot, but to
ensure consideration to the environment of his or her neighbors, the general
appearance of the community, and preserve the health and safety of the
individual and the general public. These regulations shall not apply to
specific screening devices required in some commercial and industrial districts
in this zoning code.
   (B)   Any fence to be erected shall require the issuance of a zoning permit
by the Zoning Inspector after the plans have been approved. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to determine the actual location of all
property lines and to prepare the fence plans. The fence installation shall not
deviate from the approved plan. The village will make inspections as necessary
to see the fence is constructed in accordance with plans submitted with the
zoning permit. However, the issuance of such permit shall not be construed to
mean that the village has certified the exact location of lot lines or
determined that said fence is not encroaching on an adjoining property, nor
shall it relieve the permit holder from any such duty to verify actual lot
lines. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to contact the
owner of all underground utilities to have such facilities located before any
posts are driven or holes excavated.
   (C)   The approval of a zoning permit for a fence does not supersede any
applicable protective covenants for any subdivision, industrial parks, business
parks, or similar locations having recorded protective covenants. Property
owners are encouraged to check their covenants for applicable fence
restrictions before seeking a zoning permit.
   (D)   Permitted fences.  Open ornamental fences, such as rail fences, split
rail fences, picket fences, and similar fences which are less than 50% opaque.
      (1)   Maximum height:  Four feet.
      (2)   Minimum setback from lot line: Two feet, unless the fence is a
common fence agreed to by both adjoining landowners and both parties sign an
agreement permitting the location of the fence to be on the lot line and
agreeing to mutually maintain the fence on their side.
      (3)   Open ornamental fences shall not be erected in the front yard,
beyond the front of the principal building or structure.
      (4)   On a corner lot, no open ornamental fence shall be constructed
within ten feet of either street right-of-way line nor shall such fence be
constructed closer to the street right-of-way line than the setback on the
front side of the house.
      (5)   The good side of the fence is to face the neighboring property.
      (6)   Snow fences and other temporary fences are permitted with no fee.
All other fences are $25.
   (E)   Temporary snow fence shall be permitted subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   May be installed between the period of November 1 to April 1 each
year.
      (2)   Such fence does not block travel on any public sidewalk, alley, or
street.
      (3)   Such fence is at least ten feet from the edge of any public street
or alley.
      (4)   A permit must be filed, but in no instance will a fee be required.
      (5)   May be installed on special occasions during any Village Festival
for safety reason without a permit.
   (F)   Chain link fences: fences usually made of steel interconnecting loops
of wire with regular sized openings.
      (1)   Maximum height:  Six feet.
      (2)   Minimum setback from lot line:  Two feet unless the fence is a
common fence agreed to by both adjoining landowners and both parties sign an
agreement permitting the location of the fence to be on the lot line and
agreeing to mutually maintain the fence on their side.
      (3)   Chain link fences shall not be erected in the front yard beyond the
front of the principal building or structure.
      (4)   On a corner lot, chain link fences may not be constructed in front
of either the minimum building line established on the plat for that
subdivision or the minimum front yard setback for that zoning district from
either street frontage, whichever is further from the street.
      (5)   Closed loop on top type of fence material.
   (G)   Privacy fences:  Permitted types of privacy fences are:
      (1)   Basket weave or lattice-type fences consisting of a fence made of
interwoven strips or slats of wood or similar flexible material in which the
pattern has the appearance of a plaited basket.
      (2)   Louver or shadow box fences consisting of a series of slats placed
or positioned to provide air to move through the fence but deflect light
perpendicular to its vertical plane.
      (3)   Stockade or palisade fences constructed of a row of boards or
stakes placed upright against each other where more than 50% of the plane of
the fence is closed to light or air.
      (4)   Maximum height:  Six feet.
      (5)   Minimum setback from lot line:  Two feet unless the fence is a
common fence agreed to by both adjoining landowners and both parties sign an
agreement permitting the location of the fence to be on the lot line and
agreeing to mutually maintain the fence on their side.
      (6)   Privacy fences shall not be erected in the front yard beyond the
front of the principal building or structure.
      (7)   On a corner lot, privacy fences may not be constructed in front of
either the minimum building line established on the plat for that subdivision
or the minimum front yard setback for that zoning district from either street
frontage, whichever is further from the street.
      (8)   The good side of the fence is to face the neighboring property.
   (H)   The following types of fences shall be prohibited in any zoning
district within the village except for agriculture or livestock purposes.
      (1)   Barbed wire fences consisting of one or more strands of wire having
sharp points or barbs along its length.
      (2)   Electrified fences consisting of one or more strands of wire that
are charged with either a constant or intermittent flow of electrical current.
An exception is granted for invisible fences consisting of low voltage (2.5
watts) wire buried beneath the ground, used to activate a device placed on the
collars of dogs or other similar pets to contain them on the premises.
Invisible fences shall be restricted to within the property lines and shall not
encroach upon the public right-of-way.
   (I)   Maintenance of fences. All fences, once constructed, shall be
maintained in good condition, structurally sound and attractively finished at
all times. Any property between a fence and the lot line shall also be mowed
and maintained at all times.
   (J)   Fences shall not be placed within a utility easement containing any
buried or overhead facilities. Fences across drainage easement or swales will
require approval of the Village Administrator to assure for the proper flow of
water. No fence shall be constructed within three feet of any manhole, utility
ground box or other similar structure.
(Ord. 23-2009, passed 10-13-09) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.094  CORNER CLEARANCE.
   No fence, wall, greenbelt, planting strip, or any other obstructions to
vision above a height of two feet from the established street grade shall be
permitted within the triangular area at the intersection of any street right-
of-way lines formed by a straight line drawn between said right-of-way lines at
a distance along each line of 25 feet measured from their point of
intersection.
(Ord. 23-2009, passed 10-13-09) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.095  MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Intent.  It is the intent of this section to encourage the provision
of alternative modest income housing in residential areas by permitting the use
of Class A Manufactured Homes, as defined herein, in all districts in which
similar dwellings constructed on site are permitted. This section shall apply
only to manufactured/mobile homes located outside of mobile home parks and/or
communities.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANCHORING SYSTEM.   An approved system of straps, cables, turnbuckles,
chains, ties or other approved materials used to secure a manufactured or
mobile home.
      DESIGN, RESIDENTIAL.   A manufactured home which has the same siding
materials and pitched, shingled roofs as used on conventional homes.
      DESIGN STANDARD.   A bowed metal roof and aluminum siding, the
traditional mobile home look.
      FOUNDATION SIDING/SKIRTING.  A type of wainscoting constructed of fire
and weather-resistant material such as aluminum, treated pressed wood or other
approved materials, enclosing the entire undercarriage of the manufactured or
mobile home.
      MANUFACTURED HOME.   A residential dwelling unit fabricated in an off-
site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building site,
bearing a seal certifying that it is built in compliance with the National
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act, (42 U.S.C. 5401 et
seq.) and defined herein as a manufactured home, and meeting the requirements
of a manufactured home as defined in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MOBILE HOME.   Any self-propelled or nonself-propelled vehicle used or so
designated, constructed, reconstructed or added to in such a manner as will
permit occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more
persons, and to permit its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets
and highways, and does not qualify as a manufactured home as defined in R.C. §
3781.06.
      PERMANENT FOUNDATION.   Any structural system for transporting loads from
a structure to the earth at a depth below the established frost line without
exceeding the safe bearing capacity of the supporting soil.
      PERMANENT PERIMETER ENCLOSURE.  A foundation which forms a complete
enclosure under exterior walls.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).   A vehicular portable structure built on a
chassis and not exceeding a gross weight of 4,500 pounds when factory-equipped
for the road, or an overall length of 30 feet, and designed to be used as a
temporary dwelling, travel, recreational and vacation use.
      SECTION.   A unit of a manufactured home at least ten body feet in width
and 30 body feet in length.
      SUPPORT SYSTEM.   A pad or a combination of footings, piers, caps, plates
and shims, which when properly installed, support the manufactured/mobile home.
   (C)   Classification of manufactured/mobile homes.
      (1)   Class A.  A manufactured home certified as meeting the Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Standards of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Residential Designed Homes Placed on a Permanent Foundation.
      (2)   Class B.  A manufactured home certified as meeting the Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Standards of the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Standard Designed Home Placed on a Temporary or Permanent
Foundation.
      (3)   Class C.  A mobile home unit built before the HUD Code (1976).
   (D)   Applicability; permitted placement.  The establishment, location and
use of a Class A manufactured home as a permanent residence approved
individually, by specific materials, or by design, shall be permitted in
Residential R-l or R-2 Districts, subject to the requirements applying to
residential uses in the district and provided the dwelling shall meet the
exterior appearance standards. A zoning certificate shall be required for all
applications for such use. Applications for approval shall be submitted to the
Zoning Inspector on such forms as he may require to make his determination.
   (E)   Replacement of nonconforming homes.
      (1)   A manufactured or mobile home deemed a legal nonconforming use may
be replaced by a manufactured home, provided the replacement is as follows: A
Class C mobile home may be replaced with a Class A or B; a Class B manufactured
home could be replaced with a Class A or B; a Class A manufactured home could
be replaced with another Class A manufactured home.
      (2)   All additions and improvements shall meet all setback provisions of
the zoning district in which the nonconforming home is located.
   (F)   Exterior appearance standards.  Class A manufactured homes shall:
      (1)   Meet all requirements for lot, yard, building and other
requirements for the district in which it is located.
      (2)   Be placed on a permanent foundation.
      (3)   Utilize a permanent perimeter enclosure in accordance with the
approved installation standards and this section.
      (4)   Be anchored to the ground in accordance with the manufacturer's
specifications.
      (5)   Have all wheels, axles and hitch mechanisms removed.
      (6)   Have utilities connected in accordance with the village
requirements and manufacturer's specifications.
      (7)   Have siding material which looks like a type used on site-
constructed residences.
      (8)   The structure has a minimum 3:12 residential roof pitch,
conventional residential siding, and a six-inch minimum eave overhang,
including appropriate guttering.
      (9)   Have a minimum width of the main body as assembled on the site of
not less than 22 feet at one point, and a length of at least 22 feet at one
point and have a total living area, excluding garages, porches or attachments
of at least 700 square feet.
      (10)   The home shall appear to face the public street.
   (G)   Temporary use.
      (1)   When permitted. The Planning Commission may issue a temporary use
permit for the following:
         (a)   To an applicant in the process of building a conventional
dwelling to locate a manufactured or mobile home on a building lot during the
course of construction of the dwelling; such permit shall not be issued until
after a zoning certificate has been issued for the dwelling.
         (b)   To an applicant whose own health or the health of another
necessitates care, where the facts show that an unnecessary hardship would
occur if not permitted to locate a manufactured home adjacent to the residence
of one who is able to provide such care or in need of such care.
      (2)   Length of permit. A temporary use permit may be issued by the Board
for a period not to exceed two years. The temporary permit may be renewed for
an additional one year upon showing of good cause. A temporary use permit may
be issued to an applicant for a health or age-related circumstance for a period
coterminous with the health or age related circumstances.
      (3)   Permit expiration. At the time the temporary permit expires, the
manufactured home and all appurtenances shall be removed from the property
within 90 days.
      (4)   Utility requirements. Manufactured or mobile homes used for
temporary uses shall have an approved water supply, sewage disposal system and
utility connections where appropriate.
(Ord. 1-2009, passed 1-13-09) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT
§ 154.105  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to permit large-scale, one-family
residential subdivisions to be planned as a single unit by allowing certain
modifications to be made to the area and height regulations stated for one-
family residential districts in §
154.020(D), providing such developments meet the provisions and requirements
stated below in §
154.106.
(`94 Code, § 1177.01)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.106  REDUCTION IN LOT AREA.
   (A)   (1)   Within any R One-Family Residential District, the minimum lot
sizes may be reduced in accordance with the percentage figures stated below,
providing the dwelling unit density shall be no greater than as if the land
area to be subdivided were developed in the minimum square foot lot areas as
required for each One-Family Residential District under §
154.020(D).
 
Residential District Percent of Reduction
R-1                  15
R-2                  13
 
      (2)   This reduction may be accomplished in part by reducing lot widths
up to ten feet. All calculations shall be predicated upon the One-Family
Districts having the following gross densities (including roads):
 
Residential District Dwelling Units Per Acre
R-1                  4.1
R-2                  3.2
 
   (B)   For each square foot of land gained, under the provisions above,
within a residential subdivision, through the reduction of the lot area below
the minimum requirements as outlined in §
154.020(D), at least equal amounts of land shall be dedicated to the common use
of the lot owners of the subdivision in a manner approved by Council.
   (C)   The area to be dedicated for subdivision open space purposes shall not
be less than five acres and shall be in a location and shape approved by the
Planning Commission. The developer or subdivider shall dedicate the total park
area at the time of filing the final plat on all or any portion of the plat.
Such park areas shall not include as part of their minimum land area bodies of
water, swamps or excessive grades which make the land unusable for recreational
purposes.
   (D)   This plan for reduced lot sizes shall only be permitted if it is
mutually agreeable to Council and the subdivider or developer.
   (E)   This development for reduced lot sizes shall be started within one
year after having received approval of the final plat, and shall be completed
in a reasonable amount of time. Failure to start within this period shall
automatically void all previous approval.
   (F)   In approving the application of the open space development technique,
the Planning Commission shall be cognizant of the following objectives:
      (1)   To provide a more desirable living environment by preserving the
natural character of the site: stands of trees, hills, streams and similar
natural assets.
      (2)   To encourage developers to use a more creative approach in the
development of residential areas, thereby designing safety into the street
pattern.
      (3)   To encourage a more efficient and desirable use of open areas
designed for common use while recognizing a reduction in development costs and
by allowing the developer to bypass natural obstacles on the site.
      (4)   In approving an open space development, the Planning Commission
shall determine that the width, depth and shape of adjacent lots are similar
and large variations shall not be permitted.
(`94 Code, § 1177.02)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 154.120  INTENT.
   The purpose of these sign regulations is to promote and protect the public
health, welfare and safety by regulating existing and proposed outdoor
advertising, outdoor advertising signs and outdoor signs of all types. They are
intended to protect property values, create a more attractive economic and
business climate and natural beauty of designated areas.
(`94 Code, § 1179.01)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92)
§ 154.121  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL SIGNS IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   The regulations contained in this section shall apply to all signs and all
zoning districts.
   (A)   Any illuminated sign or lighting device shall employ only light
emitting a light of constant intensity, and no sign shall be illuminated by or
contain flashing, intermittent, rotating or moving light or lights except
clocks and time and temperature devices. In no event shall an illuminated sign
or lighting device be placed or directed so as to permit the beams and
illumination therefrom to be directed or beamed upon a public street, highway,
sidewalk or adjacent premises so as to cause glare or reflection that may
constitute a traffic hazard or nuisance.
   (B)   Signs shall not be placed on the roof of any building except in cases
where approved by Council when it is determined that a roof sign would be the
only means of adequate identification.
   (C)   A sign or part thereof or any other advertising device shall not
contain or consist of banners, pennants, ribbons, streamers, spinners or other
similar moving devices. Such devices, as well as strings of lights, shall not
be used for the purpose of advertising or attracting attention.
   (D)   Signs advertising goods and services not available on the premises are
prohibited except as provided for in §
154.133.
   (E)   The property owner shall be responsible to construct and maintain all
signs, including sign structures, etc., to be completely safe and free of
hazard.
   (F)   A sign shall not be placed in or above any public right-of-way except
publicly owned signs such as traffic-control signs and directional signs,
projecting signs authorized by Council and signs with information directing and
guiding traffic and parking on private property where authorized by Council.
   (G)   Signs with information directing and guiding traffic and parking on
private property, including entrance and exit signs, shall be permitted on any
private property in any zoning district. Size and location shall be in
accordance with
154.131.
(`94 Code, § 1179.02)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92)
§ 154.122  MEASUREMENT OF SIGN AREA.
   The surface area of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area
within a regular, geometric form or combination of regular, geometric forms
comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed. Frames and structural members not being
advertising matter shall not be included in computation of surface area. A sign
may have one or two opposite faces or sides, each having the permitted sign
area. Signs having more than two faces or sides shall be reduced in size so
that the total surfaces visible from any one direction shall not exceed the
permitted sign area.
(`94 Code, § 1179.03)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.123  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following types of signs are prohibited and shall be removed, altered or
repaired in accordance with the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Signs containing statements, words or pictures of an obscene, indecent
or immoral character;
   (B)   Signs containing or which are in imitation of, an official traffic
sign or signal;
   (C)   Signs that are of a size, location, movement, content, coloring or
manner or illumination which may be confused with or construed as a traffic-
control device or which hide from view any traffic or street sign or signal or
create a traffic hazard;
   (D)   Signs which advertise an activity, business, product or service no
longer conducted;
   (E)   Signs or parts of signs that may swing or otherwise noticeably move as
a result of wind pressure because of the manner of their suspension or
attachment, except that real estate "for sale" signs, the bottoms of which are
no higher than three feet above the ground, may swing if secured with closed
eyelets or hinges in such a manner that the sign cannot become disconnected
from the main support or anchoring mechanism;
   (F)   Signs located within a public right-of-way except where specifically
authorized by Council; or
   (G)   Signs which have been erected or placed on a premise without obtaining
a required permit.
(`94 Code, § 1179.04)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.124  SIGNS PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   The following signs shall be permitted in any zoning district without a
permit:
   (A)   One sign advertising the sale, lease or rental of the premise upon
which the sign is located, shall not exceed 32 square feet in area, except in
all residential districts where the area of the sign including add-ons shall
not be more than five square feet and is placed not less than eight feet back
of the property line. Where the principal building is less than eight feet back
of the property line, such sign may not be placed more than five feet in front
of the principal building.
   (B)   One sign pertaining to a home occupation, as herein specified, shall
be permitted, provided the sign is not over eight square feet.
   (C)   One bulletin board or sign for churches, libraries, museums or similar
institutions provided it does not exceed 40 square feet in area and is placed
not nearer than 20 feet from the front line nor eight feet from the side lot
line, and does not obstruct the view across the corner of an intersecting
street and is erected upon the premises of a church or similar institution for
the purpose of displaying the name and activities thereof, or the service
provided therein.
   (D)   One identification placard for multiple-family dwellings if it does
not exceed 24 square feet in area and is placed not nearer than 20 feet from
the front line, nor eight feet from the side lot line, and does not obstruct
the view across the corner of intersecting streets.
   (E)   Political signs not exceeding six square feet in area, provided such
signs shall be placed no earlier than 90 days before election day and removed
within two weeks following election day.
   (F)   Garage sale, etc., signs not exceeding four square feet in area
provided such signs are placed and removed within 24 hours of the sale date.
(`94 Code, § 1179.05)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.125  WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   In a business or industrial district, each business or industry shall
be permitted one wall sign for each 40 feet of the building facing a public
street.
   (B)   The total area of a wall sign(s) for any single business or industrial
enterprise shall not exceed three square feet per lineal foot of building
facing a street with a maximum of 120 square feet each.
   (C)   Wall signs shall not extend into any street, sidewalk, alley or public
thoroughfare for a distance greater than 12 inches, shall have at least nine
feet clearance between the lower edge of the sign and the ground and fourteen
and one-half feet clearance over any area used by motor vehicles.
   (D)   Wall signs made of glass shall not exceed twelve square feet when
double strength glass is used and forty square feet when plate or wired glass
is used.
   (E)   No wall sign shall be so erected as to cover the doors or windows of
any building, or otherwise prevent free ingress and egress from any window,
door or fire escape of any building.
   (F)   Each wall sign erected, hung or suspended or permitted under the terms
of this chapter shall be securely fastened to a building or other structure
upon the premises owned or occupied by the applicant and amply supported
vertically and horizontally to prevent falling from its own weight or from wind
pressure, and to prevent the same from becoming a hazard to persons using the
public street or sidewalk in the vicinity of the sign. No sign as herein
referred to, shall be suspended from or supported by a cornice or coping but
shall be anchored to the supporting walls of the building.
(`94 Code, § 1179.06)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.126  PROJECTING SIGN.
   (A)   In a business or industrial district, each business or industry shall
be permitted one projecting sign for each face of the building facing a public
or private street.
   (B)   Projection of a projecting sign shall not exceed six feet measured
from the face of the main building, shall not exceed 30 square feet in size,
shall not be closer than 24 inches from the face of curb or edge of pavement
and shall have at least nine feet between the lower edge of the sign and the
ground and fourteen and one-half feet over any area used by motor vehicles.
   (C)   Projecting signs shall be not less than five feet from the side
property line or division wall between different occupants.
   (D)   No projecting signs shall contain an area of glass in excess of nine
square feet when plate or wired glass is used.
(Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.127  GROUND SIGNS.
   (A)   In a business or industrial district one ground sign for each 40 feet
of building facing a public or private street shall be permitted for each
business or industrial establishment in lieu of a projecting sign. This sign
may be located within ten feet of the right-of-way of any street or highway.
The maximum area of such sign shall not exceed 30 square feet and the height
shall not exceed 20 feet above grade level at the street right-of-way line.
Ground signs placed more than ten feet back of the street property line
however, may be increased in size ten square feet in area and five feet in
height for each additional five feet of setback up to a maximum of 100 square
feet in area and 40 feet in height above the grade level.
   (B)   One ground sign serving a group of five or more business
establishments in business and industrial districts and placed at least twenty
feet back of the property line shall be permitted on each street serving such
group of businesses in lieu of individual ground signs. The maximum area of
such a ground sign shall not exceed 100 square feet for five business
establishments, but may be increased in size by ten square feet for each
additional business up to a maximum of 200 square feet. Such signs shall not
exceed 30 feet in height for 100 square foot signs with an additional one foot
added to height permitted with each additional ten square feet of sign area up
to a maximum of 40 feet in height.
   (C)   All ground signs shall have at least 12 feet clearance between the
grade level at the street right-of-way line and the lower edge of the sign when
located within ten feet of the right-of-way of any street or highway. Such sign
shall be supported by a single column, the diameter of which shall not exceed
12 inches, or twin columns not exceeding four inches in diameter.
   (D)   Any part of any ground sign shall be not less than 50 feet from any
residential district.
(`94 Code, § 1179.08)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.128  ROOF SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs placed on or above the roof of any building shall not be
permitted except by approval of Council as a variance when it is determined by
Council that a roof sign would be the only means of adequate identification and
when the following regulations are complied with.
   (B)   No signboard shall be placed on the roof of any building so as to
prevent the free passage from one part of the roof to any other part or
interfere with any opening thereon. No signboard shall project beyond the edge
of the roof in any direction and if over four feet in height shall be so
constructed as to leave a clear space of at least six feet between the roof
level and the lowest part of the sign and at least five feet clearance between
the vertical supports. Every roof sign over four feet in height shall be set
back at least five feet from the face of any front, rear or sidewall.
   (C)   If the roof sign is illuminated, lighting reflectors may project six
feet beyond the building line.
   (D)   Signs shall be designated to withstand a wind pressure of 30 pounds
per square foot of area subject to such pressure.
   (E)   Roof sign structures may be erected upon fireproof buildings to a
height of not exceeding 50 feet above the roof and upon nonfireproof buildings
to a height not exceeding 30 feet above the roof level.
   (F)   For signs over four feet above the roof, the portion of such structure
covered and exposed to wind pressure shall not exceed one-third the total area
thereof. All such signs shall be thoroughly secured to the building upon which
they are installed, erected or constructed by iron or metal anchors, bolts,
supports, chains, stranded cables, steel rods or braces.
   (G)   In no case shall any roof sign for any single business or industrial
enterprise exceed three square feet per lineal feet of occupied building
frontage with a maximum of 150 square feet.
   (H)   Roof signs when approved shall be in lieu of wall signs.
(`94 Code, § 1179.09)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.129  PORTABLE AND TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   In all districts each premise or establishment may have one temporary
or portable sign not exceeding 50 square feet in area announcing special public
or institutional events, including the opening of a new business and including
the erection of a building displaying the name of the architect, builders or
contractors, erected for a period not to exceed sixty days plus the event or
construction period, but in no case longer than 24 months.
   (B)   Portable or temporary signs including trailer-mounted signs and
balloons are prohibited within 100 feet of a residential district.
   (C)   Small advertising signs as permitted in §
154.130 shall not be considered portable or temporary signs.
(`94 Code, § 1179.10)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92)
§ 154.130  SMALL ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   In business and industrial districts four small freestanding or
portable advertising signs, not exceeding 12 square feet each in area shall be
permitted for each business or industrial establishment.
   (B)   Such small advertising signs shall not exceed eight feet in height and
shall not be located closer to any street right-of-way than ten feet or the
established building line, whichever is less. In no case shall any sign be
located in any public street or alley right-of-way.
   (C)   Such small advertising signs shall only advertise products, services
or activities located on the premises in which the sign is located. Price
information is permitted on such signs.
   (D)   Trailer-mounted signs are not considered small advertising signs and
are not permitted for the use as such.
(`94 Code, § 1179.11)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.131  TRAFFIC DIRECTION OR GUIDANCE SIGNS.
   In all districts all parking lots having spaces for four or more cars or
drive-in type car service may have traffic direction or guidance signs,
including entrance and exit signs. Such signs shall not exceed six square feet
in area and shall only display directional information and conditions of use
and shall not extend more than three feet above the drive, street or sidewalk
or otherwise obstruct visibility.
(`94 Code, § 1179.12)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.132  TRAILER-MOUNTED SIGNS.
   Trailer-mounted signs or similar portable signs are prohibited in all zoning
districts except as permitted in §
154.129.
(`94 Code, § 1179.13)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.133  OFF-PREMISE SIGNS.
   (A)   Off-premise signs contain information about goods, services, uses,
businesses, persons, subjects, etc. not relative to the premises upon which the
sign is located and shall be:
      (1)   Directional: used for traffic direction only, containing only the
principal name of a premise and the direction to same; or
      (2)   All others including billboards.
   (B)   Off-premise signs, other than directional shall be permitted only in
business and industrial districts.
   (C)   All off-premise signs shall be approved by the Planning Commission. In
making their determination, the Commission shall consider visibility,
obstruction of view of adjacent uses, other signs in the area, location, size,
etc. plus any additional matters which the Commission feels appropriate.
   (D)   Directional off-premise signs of less than 20 square feet may be
located up to ten feet from the street property line. Larger signs shall be
located one-half the building setback distance, but no closer than 20 feet.
   (E)   The maximum display area of a sign shall be 300 square feet, and the
maximum height shall be 25 feet.
   (F)   Such signs shall not be located so as to interfere with the visibility
and safe operation of vehicles or pedestrians entering or leaving the premise
or intersecting streets or crosswalks.
   (G)   Such signs shall not be located within ten feet of any lot line or
within 100 feet of a residential district on the same street.
   (H)   Such signs shall conform to all appropriate sections of this chapter
except in conflict with this section and limitations based upon buildings and
number of signs.
   (I)   Seat benches, trash containers, telephone booths, bus shelters,
vehicles, vending machines and similar devices containing off-premise signs
shall be exempt from these provisions except Planning Commission approval.
(`94 Code, § 1179.14)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.134  STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All structural requirements shall be in accordance with applicable codes,
shall be constructed to withstand a windstress of 30 pounds per square foot and
shall be as approved by the Building Inspector. However, the owner is
responsible to construct and maintain all signs so as to render them safe to
persons, property and traffic.
(`94 Code, § 1179.15)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.135  SIGN PERMITS; FEE.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   Signs shall not be required to have a permit when a proposed sign
is considered and approved along with a request for an occupancy certificate or
building permit or is listed in §
154.124. In other cases, only the following types of signs shall be required to
have a sign permit:
         (a)   Wall signs to be erected after the adoption of these sign
regulations;
         (b)   Projecting signs to be erected after the adoption of these sign
regulations;
         (c)   Ground signs to be erected after the adoption of these sign
regulations;
         (d)   Roof signs to be erected after the adoption of these sign
regulations; and
         (e)   Off-premise signs to be erected after the adoption of these sign
regulations.
      (2)   Signs listed in §
154.124, portable, temporary or traffic directional signs, etc. shall not be
required to have a permit.
      (3)   The Building and Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to
determine the need for a permit where these regulations do not specifically
address the case.
      (4)   A permit shall become void if the work for which the permit was
issued is not completed within six months of the date of the permit.
(`94 Code, § 1179.16)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92)
   (B)   Fee.  Fees for sign permits shall be $10 for each sign for which a
permit is required.
(`94 Code, § 1179.17)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92; Am. Ord. 23-97, passed 7-8-
97)
§ 154.136  MAINTENANCE.
   All signs and sign structures, including their supports, anchors, guys,
etc., shall be kept properly painted and/or galvanized and generally maintained
in a proper state of preservation and safety. The Building and Zoning Inspector
may order the removal of any sign which is not maintained in accordance with
these conditions.
(`94 Code, § 1179.18)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.137  VARIANCES.
   Council shall have the authority to permit a variation in the sign
requirements in any zoning district where there are unusual and practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships in complying with such requirements,
provided that any such variation shall not unreasonably affect any adjoining
property or the general welfare and further provided that the purpose and
intent of the sign requirements not be diminished any more than is reasonably
necessary to permit the variation.
(`94 Code, § 1179.19)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92)
§ 154.138  NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Existing signs which were constructed in accordance with all applicable
regulations in effect at the time of construction may remain or be
reconstructed at the same location and be of the same size, provided they are
continually maintained in accordance with §
154.136.
(`94 Code, § 1179.20)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92)
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENT
§ 154.150  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT OR ENTERTAINMENT.  An establishment which engages,
regardless of frequency or duration, in the presentation of nude and semi-nude
exhibitions and performances for commercial or pecuniary gain, which excludes
minors by virtue of age. This includes an establishment whose major business is
the provision of premises where customers either congregate, associate or
consort with employees or other customers who engage in specified sexual
activities with or in the presence of such customers, or who display specified
anatomical areas in the presence of such customers. This definition does not
apply to the exhibition, presentation, showing or performance of any play,
ballet, drama, tableau or production in any theater, concert hall, museum of
fine arts, school, institution of higher learning or similar establishment
which is primarily devoted to such exhibitions, presentation. shows or
performances as forms of expression of opinion, communication, speech, ideas,
information, art or drama, as differentiated from commercial or business
advertising, promotion, selling or servicing products or services or otherwise
advancing the economic welfare of a commercial or business enterprise such as a
hotel, motel, bar, nightclub, restaurant, tavern or dance hall.
   ADULT BOOK AND/OR VIDEO STORE.  An establishment which has, as a substantial
portion of its stock in trade, videos, books, magazines and/or periodicals,
from which minors are excluded by virtue of age.
   ADULT MOVIE HOUSE.  An establishment, located within an enclosed building,
displaying movies that are rated X, XX, or XXX which is customarily not open to
the general public by excluding minors by virtue of age.
   CUSTOMER.  Any person who:
      (1)   Is allowed to enter an establishment in return for the payment of
an admission fee or any form of consideration or gratuity; or
      (2)   Enters an establishment for the purpose of purchasing or renting a
commodity or service therein; or
      (3)   Is a member of an on the premises of a private club operating under
the provisions of this section.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   human genitals, pubic region,
         (b)   Buttock, and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast.
(Ord. 16-95, passed 6-13-95; Am. Ord. 8-98, passed 3-24-98)
§ 154.151  STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
   All adult book and/or video stores, adult amusement or entertainment,
including, but not limited to, topless, bottomless or nude dancers, exotic
dancers and/or strippers and/or adult movie houses, or similar entertainment,
as hereafter defined, opened or continued on or after the effective date of
this subchapter, shall be subject to the following regulations, provisions and
definitions.
   (A)   The establishment of the above uses shall not be located within 500
feet of any residential district, school, church, park, playground or other use
established specifically for the activities of minors, measured by radius from
the location of adult use.
   (B)   Any of the above uses shall not be located within a 1,000 foot radius
of two other such uses, except that such restriction may be waived if it is
found that:
      (1)   The proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development of a
“skid row” area; and
      (2)   The establishment of an additional use of the above type in an area
will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation,
revitalization or redevelopment, whether residential or nonresidential.
   (C)   The uses hereby regulated shall also be subject to all applicable
zoning regulations, administrative rules and regulations and federal, state and
local laws.
   (D)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with §§
154.060 and
154.061 of this chapter, and Chapter 76 of this code.
   (E)   The location, number and type of signage shall be in accordance with
§§
154.120 through
154.138.
(Ord. 16-95, passed 6-13-95; Am. Ord. 8-98, passed 3-24-98)
COMMUNICATION TOWERS
§ 154.165  PURPOSE.
   This communication tower regulation is intended to preserve the opportunity
for improved services and technological advances from such consumer oriented
public services and at the same time preserve the quality of life in
residential areas close to tower installations including to protect the health
and safety of residents from possible adverse impacts of emissions including
noise, to protect the visual quality and natural beauty of the community, and
to provide guidelines for zoning compliance to protect the general welfare,
health and safety of the residents of the village.
(Ord. 24-97, passed 7-8-97)
§ 154.166  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNICATION DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM.  Includes broadcast antennae for wireless
telephone, AM and FM, microwave and television systems.
   COMMUNICATIONS TOWER.  A structure, 35 feet or higher, that is intended for
transmitting, receiving or relaying television, radio, telephone or other
communications.
(Ord. 24-97, passed 7-8-97)
§ 154.167  PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   No communication tower over 35 feet in height above grade shall be
installed or constructed in the village without first obtaining a special
permit fro same from the Village Council.
   (B)   The Council shall approve, disapprove, or approve with conditions a
special permit for a communication tower over 35 feet in height based on a site
plan to be submitted by the applicant as prescribed by the Council. In making
its decision, while upholding the purpose of this section, the Council shall
consider that the proposed tower and attendant installation be subject to the
following:
      (1)   Sited so that all reasonable alternatives for tower placement have
been clearly and convincingly demonstrated so that the installation will
minimize the visual intrusion of the tower;
      (2)   Shared with other users to minimize the proliferation of towers
within the village, including the presentation of evidence demonstrating that
consideration was given to co-locating the communication devices and related
equipment on nearby pre-existing towers and that such co-location was rejected
due to one of the following reasons:
         (a)   Adequate space was not available on any nearby tower.
         (b)   No nearby tower could be structurally reinforced to accept such
co-location at a reasonable cost.
         (c)   Interference with existing signal devices was unacceptable and
could not be shielded at a reasonable cost.
         (d)   Good faith negotiations with the owner(s) of existing towers
could not produce a satisfactory agreement.
         (e)   Any other justifiable reason acceptable to the Village Council.
      (3)   Detailed in a site plan to include complete structure locations and
setbacks.
      (4)   Located to minimize the visual impact at base elevation of the
proposed structure by a comprehensive landscape plan.
      (5)   Erection only within areas zoned for industrial use.
   (C)   Plans submitted for proposed towers shall show conformance with the
following development standards:
      (1)   Minimum setback from all property lines to the tower and all
accessory buildings shall be a distance twice the height of the tower. Setback
shall be defined as the distance from the property line to the nearest portion
of the structure(s).
      (2)   Underground wiring to the site shall be required.
      (3)   Equipment, mobile or immobile, not used in direct support of the
transmission or relay facility, shall not be stored or parked on the site
except in connection with a repair or maintenance being made to the
installation.
      (4)   Obsolete or unused facilities shall be removed within 12 months of
ceasing operation.
      (5)   Plans shall provide for a six-foot high obscuring fence around the
structure and located as close to the structure as possible while still
allowing adequate room for maintenance, temporary vehicle parking, etc.
      (6)   The use of flashing lights and/or strobing lights upon towers and
ante structures, within the village is strictly prohibited, unless the use of
such lighting is specifically required, as the sole alternative, by regulations
of the FCC, FAA or other similar regulatory agency, and, even then, only after
application to the village for such lighting and approval by the Council.
      (7)   Public messages and advertising of any kind is prohibited from
being placed upon any towers and antenna structures within the village.
   (D)   Applicants shall notify all adjoining landowners of a proposed
communication tower installation and of any hearings before the Village Council
prior to obtaining a special permit from the Village Council.
   (E)   The following are exempt from the special provisions of this section:
      (1)   Amateur radio installations operating in accordance with Federal
Communications Commission Rules and Regulations part 97.
      (2)   Telephone poles which are part of a communication distribution
system for telephone wires.
   (F)   A non-refundable fee of $150 shall be paid to the village for review
of each application for a special permit for a communication tower.  A building
and electrical permit must be applied for prior to erecting a tower. The fee
for the building and electrical permits is in addition to the special permit
fee.
(Ord. 24-97, passed 7-8-97)
§ 154.168  CHAPTER REGULATIONS TO SUPPLEMENT OTHER REGULATIONS.
   The foregoing regulations are in addition to any other regulation of the
village regarding the construction, installation and maintenance of a
communication tower or any other structure or building.
(Ord. 24-97, passed 7-8-97)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.180  RESPONSIBILITY OF ZONING INSPECTOR.
   The provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall be administered and enforced
by the Zoning Inspector or his deputies, or such other officials as may be
designated by Council.
   (A)   There shall be constituted upon the effective date of this section,
the office of Zoning Inspector.
   (B)   The Mayor shall appoint the zoning inspector who need not be a
resident of the village. The zoning inspector shall serve at the pleasure of
the Mayor or Council.
   (C)   The Zoning Inspector shall be compensated as determined by Council.
   (D)   He shall be bonded to an amount as determined by Council.
   (E)   He shall conduct, within 60 days of assumption of office a survey of
all housing within the village and make permanent notation of the condition of
each dwelling, building or structure as delineated herein.
   (F)   He shall collect and deposit in a separate account in the official
depository, a fee determined by Council for each inspection which he shall be
required to execute by the provisions of this chapter. He shall render to the
legislative body on the first day of each month a full accounting thereof.
(`94 Code, § 1145.01)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 4-2021, passed 3-
9-21)
§ 154.181  DUTIES OF ZONING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Inspector shall grant zoning certificates and make
inspections of premises or buildings necessary in carrying out his duties in
compliance with the provisions of this Zoning Ordinance. No Zoning Inspector
shall issue any permits or approve any plans until he has inspected such plans
in detail and found them to conform with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Inspector shall attend all regular and special meetings of
the Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals and such other meetings as the
Mayor or Council shall direct.
   (C)   The Zoning Inspector shall keep records of all activities of his
office and report monthly at the regular meeting of the Planning Commission as
to the various classes of permits issued during the month. He shall provide a
written report as to all the various classes of permits issued during the
preceding year to Council at its first meeting in January.
   (D)   The Zoning Inspector shall also be responsible for submitting to the
Planning Commission all applications for conditional zoning certificates. The
Zoning Inspector shall not refuse to issue a zoning certificate when the
provisions or conditions of this chapter are complied with by the applicant.
   (E)   The Zoning Inspector shall maintain the zoning map of the village and
make all changes of use districts thereon immediately after approval thereof by
Council.
   (F)   The Zoning Inspector shall inspect sidewalks within the village.
   (G)   The Zoning Inspector shall perform such other duties as the Council,
Planning Commission or the Mayor directs with respect to the enforcement of
this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 1145.02)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 17-99, passed 9-
28-99)
§ 154.182  APPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Before constructing, changing the use of or altering any building,
including accessory buildings, or changing the use of any premises, application
shall be made to the Zoning Inspector for a zoning certificate. The application
shall include the following information:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to a scale of not less than ten feet to the inch
showing the actual shape, location and exact dimensions of the property to be
built upon.
      (2)   The shape, size and location of all buildings and other structures
to be erected, altered or moved and of any buildings or other structures
already on the property.
      (3)   The existing and intended use of the property, including in
residential areas, the total number of dwelling units to be accommodated in the
building.
      (4)   Any other pertinent data as may be required to determine whether
the provisions of this chapter are being observed properly.
   (B)   Within 14 days after the receipt of the application, the Zoning
Inspector shall issue a zoning certificate if the application complies with the
requirements of this chapter and the application is accompanied by a proper fee
as indicated in §
154.183. If such certificate is refused for cause, the applicant shall be
notified of such refusal and cause, within the 14-day period.
   (C)   Unless construction is started within one year from the date of
issuance, the zoning certificate shall become void, and a new certificate shall
be required upon proper application.
(`94 Code, § 1145.03)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 17-99, passed 9-
28-99)
§ 154.183  FEES.
   (A)   Fees for the inspection and the issuance of zoning certificates or
conditional zoning certificates or copies required or issued under the
provisions of this Zoning Ordinance shall be collected by the Zoning Inspector
in advance of issuance. The amount of such fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   The fee for an initial zoning certificate shall be determined by
Council.
      (2)   The fee for a conditional zoning certificate shall be determined by
Council.
      (3)   When the Planning Commission finds it necessary to maintain the
record of public hearing procedures, or when the Planning Commission will deem
it necessary to cause special studies to be made, the applicant shall bear all
direct and related costs.
(`94 Code, § 1145.04)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
   (B)   The fees for zoning inspections and certificates, zoning appeals and
other related matters are hereby established as follows:
      (1)   Initial zoning certificate - residential   $25 per unit
      (2)   Initial zoning certificate- business and industrial   $50, plus $1
per 1,000 sq. ft.,    $250 maximum
      (3)   Conditional zoning certificate   $60
      (4)   Appeal   $60
      (5)   Variance application   $60
      (6)   Lot split   $10
      (7)   Temporary buildings   $10
      (8)   Accessory buildings (residential only)   $10
      (9)   Copy of zoning code   $20
(`94 Code, § 144.01)  (Ord. 7-83, passed 2-15-83; Am. Ord. 21-97, passed 7-8-
97)
§ 154.184  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Buildings erected, altered, moved, razed or converted, or any use of land or
premises carried on in violation of any provision of this chapter are declared
to be a nuisance per se. Any building or land use activities considered
possible violations of the provisions of this chapter, which are observed by
any village official, shall be reported to the Zoning Inspector.
(`94 Code, § 1145.05)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.185  INSPECTION.
   The Zoning Inspector shall inspect each alleged violation, and shall, in
writing, order correction of all conditions which are found to be in violation
of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 1145.06)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
§ 154.186  CORRECTION PERIOD.
   All violations shall be corrected within a period of 10 days after the
written order is issued or for a longer period of time as indicated by the
Zoning Inspector in the written order. Any violations not corrected within the
specified period of time shall be reported to the Village Solicitor who shall
initiate prosecution procedures.
(`94 Code, § 1145.07)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 20-2017, passed
9-12-17)
§ 154.187  PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation.  The Planning Commission shall perform the duties and
exercise all powers as provided in R.C. § 713.11 and as otherwise provided by
this §
154.187.
   (B)   Minutes.  The Planning Commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings showing the vote of each member upon question, or if absent or
failing to vote, it shall indicate such fact, and file and record its
proceedings in the office of the Village Fiscal Officer and the minutes shall
be public record.
(`94 Code, §1147.04)
   (C)   Meetings.  The Planning Commission shall meet at the call of its
chairman or two other members; and at such other regular times as specified in
the Commission’s rules or procedure. All hearings held by the Commission shall
be open to the public. The Commission shall require a quorum of three members
at all meetings, and the concurring vote of at least three members shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
Zoning Inspector, or to decide in favor of an applicant or any matter upon
which they are required to pass or to effect any variations in this chapter.
The Commission shall have the power to subpoena and require the attendance of
witnesses, compel testimony and the production of books, papers, files and
other material which may serve as evidence to the matters before it.
(`94 Code, § 1147.05)
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall not have the power to
alter or change the zoning district classification of any property, nor to make
a change in the terms of this chapter, but does have the power to act on those
matters where this chapter provides for an administrative review,
interpretation, exception or special approval permit and to authorize a
variance as defined in this section and the laws of the state. Such powers
include:
      (1)   Appeals. The Commission shall hear and decide all appeals from any
decision or action of the Zoning Inspector or any other administrative official
in carrying out or enforcing any provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Variance. Where there are practical difficulties of unnecessary or
particular hardship in the way of carrying out the strict letter of this
chapter, the Commission shall have the power in passing on appeals to vary any
of the provisions of this chapter relating to the construction or structure.
The Commission shall authorize a variance from the strict application of the
provisions of this chapter where evidence is submitted showing that:
         (a)   By reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape or area
of a specific piece of property or by reason of exceptional topographic
conditions or other extraordinary physical land conditions applying to the
property involved or to the intended use or development of the property that
does not generally apply to other properties or uses within the same zoning
district or neighborhood, the strict application of the provisions of this
chapter would result in practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship
inconsistent with the general purpose and intent of this chapter.
         (b)   Granting of such variance will not be of substantial detriment
to the public interest or to property or improvements in such district in which
the variance is sought, and will not materially impair the purpose of this
chapter. In granting a variance, the Commission may attach such conditions or
safeguards as it may deem necessary to protect the public health, safety or
welfare and to further the purposes and intent of this chapter.
      (3)   Special Exceptions. The Commission shall hear and decide in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter requests for exceptions for
interpretations of the Zoning Districts Map, and for decisions on special
approval situations on which this chapter specifically authorizes the
Commission to pass. Any exception or special approval shall be subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   Interpret the provisions of this chapter in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of the Comprehensive Plan, as shown on the
Zoning Districts Map, accompanying and made a part of this chapter where the
street layout on the actual ground differs from the street layout on the Zoning
Districts Map.
         (b)   Permit, upon proper application, temporary uses, not otherwise
permitted in any district, not to exceed 12 months providing such uses do not
require the erection of any capital improvement of a structural nature.
         (c)   Permit modification of fence requirements, providing such
modification will not adversely affect or be detrimental to surrounding or
adjacent development.
         (d)   Permit modification of the height and area regulations as may be
necessary to secure an appropriate improvement of a building or lot which is so
located or of such a precarious shape in relation to surrounding development
that it cannot be appropriately improved without such modification.
(`94 Code, § 1147.06)
   (E)   Appeals.  Appeals to the Planning Commission may be taken by any
person, firm, corporation or by any officer, board or department of the
village, deeming himself or itself to be adversely affected by the decision of
the Zoning Inspector regarding the interpretation of this chapter. Appeals
shall be made no later than 15 calendar days after the date of the grievance.
An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the administrative officer, whose decision is appealed from, shall
certify to the Commission, after the notice of appeal has been filed, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed by other than a restraining order granted by the Commission or by a
court having lawful jurisdiction. Within its powers, the Commission may reverse
or affirm, wholly or in part or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination as in its opinion ought to be done, and in that end shall have
all the powers of the officers and bodies from whom the appeal was taken and it
may issue or direct the issuance of a certificate.
(`94 Code, § 1147.07)
   (F)   Procedure.
      (1)   All appeals and applications made to the Planning Commission shall
be in writing and on forms prescribed therefor. Every appeal or application for
a variance or special exception shall refer to the specified provision of the
Zoning Ordinance involved and shall exactly set forth the interpretation that
is claimed, the use for which the certificate is sought or the details of the
appeal that is applied for and the grounds on which it should be granted, as
the case may be. Each and every decision made by the Commission shall be by
resolution, and shall contain a full record of and findings of the Commission
in the particular case. Each such resolution shall be filed in the office of
the Village Fiscal Officer by case number under one or another of the following
headings:
         (a)   Variances; interpretations; certificates; together with all
documents pertaining thereto.
         (b)   Special exceptions; interpretations; certificates; together with
all documents pertaining thereto.
      (2)   When a notice of appeal has been filed in proper form with the
Commission or Board, the secretary shall immediately place the request for
appeal upon the calendar for hearing, and shall cause notices, stating the
time, place and purpose of the hearing. The notice shall be served personally
or by mail, addressed to the parties making the request for appeal, at least 30
days prior to the date of the scheduled hearing. Notices of the hearing shall
be sent to the owners of property within and contiguous to and directly across
the street from such parcel or parcels, at least ten days prior to the date of
the scheduled hearing. Such hearing shall be advertised by one publication in
one or more newspapers of general circulation in the village at least ten days
before the date of such hearing. The Commission or Board, at its discretion,
may send out further notices to publicize such hearings. The Commission or
Board may recess hearings from time to time, and if the time and place of the
continued hearing is publicly announced at the time of adjournment, no further
notice shall be required.
(`94 Code, § 1147.08)
   (G)   Fees.  Council may from time to time prescribe and amend by ordinance,
a reasonable schedule of fees to be charged to applicants for appeals to the
Planning Commission. At the time the notice for appeal is filed, the fee shall
be paid to the Village Fiscal Officer.
(`94 Code, § 1147.09)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 14-2003, passed
7-8-03; Am. Ord. 4-2007, passed 2-27-07; Am. Ord. 32-2008, passed 9-9-08)
§ 154.188  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Planning Commission.  The Planning Commission is hereby designated as
the Commission specified under R.C. § 713.01 and shall perform the duties of
such Commission as provided in the statute in connection with the amendment of
this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 1149.01)
   (B)   Amendments; application.  Council may, from time to time, amend by
ordinance the number, shape or area of zoning districts, established on the
Zoning Districts Map or the provisions of this chapter; but no such amendment
shall become effective unless the ordinance proposing same shall first be
submitted in writing by the Clerk of Council to the Planning Commission for
approval, disapproval or recommended modifications, and the Commission shall
have been allowed a reasonable time, not less than 30 days, and not more than
60 days, for consideration and report. No amendment which differs from or
departs from the plan or report submitted by the Planning Commission shall take
effect unless passed and approved by not less than three-quarters vote of the
entire membership of Council. No ordinance which is in accordance with the
recommendations submitted by the Planning Commission shall be deemed to pass
without the concurrence of at least a majority of the members of Council.
Council shall hold a public hearing before the adoption of the proposed
amendment. At least 30 days' notice of such amendment, and the time and place
of the hearing shall be given, and include a statement that opportunity will be
afforded to any persons interested to be heard. Any person desiring an
amendment of the Zoning Districts Map shall accompany the petition for such
amendment with the names and addresses of the owners of all properties within
and contiguous to and directly across the street from the area proposed to be
rezoned or redistricted. All applications for a zoning amendment shall indicate
the following:
      (1)   Evidence that the existing Zoning Ordinance is unreasonable with
regard to the particular property in question, and deprives the property owner
of the lawful and reasonable use of his land. For the purposes of this chapter,
a limitation upon financial or economic gain from the land in question shall
not constitute unreasonable zoning, or just cause for granting an exception to
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Evidence that the proposed amendment would materialize in equal or
better zoning than that existing.
      (3)   Any applicant who seeks to amend the Zoning Districts Map or any
provisions of this chapter, shall file with his application, a fee of $180 to
defray the expenses of processing such application, which fee shall not be
refundable. Whenever an amendment is made to the text of the Zoning Ordinance,
the appropriate definitions pertinent to such amendment shall be included in §
154.005.
(`94 Code, § 1149.02)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22-97, passed 7-
8-97)
§ 154.189  CONDITIONAL ZONING CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   Purpose.  Provision is made in this chapter for a more detailed
consideration of each of certain specific uses or activities as it may relate
to proposed conditions of location, design, size, operation, intensity of use,
generation of traffic and traffic movements, concentration of population,
processes and equipment employed, amount and kind of public facilities and
services required, together with any other factors. Land and structural uses
possessing these particularly unique characteristics are designated as
conditionally permitted uses and are permitted through the issuance of a
conditional zoning certificate with such conditions and safeguards attached as
may be deemed necessary for the protection of the public welfare.
(`94 Code, § 1151.01)
   (B)   Procedure.  Any application for a conditional zoning certificate for
any land use or structure permitted under this chapter shall be submitted in
accordance with the following procedures:
      (1)   Application to Planning Commission. An application for a
conditional zoning certificate shall be submitted to the Planning Commission on
a special form provided for that purpose. The Commission, where appropriate,
may refer an application to qualified consultants for a report, if it deems the
proposed use may cause undue traffic generation, population concentrations or
extra size sewer and/or water utility systems. The cost of such report shall be
at the expense of the applicant, and such report shall be furnished to the
Commission within 30 days from the date upon which it was requested.
      (2)   Data Required with Application.
         (a)   Form supplied by the Zoning Inspector and completed by the
applicant.
         (b)   Site plan, plot plan or development plan of the entire property
being considered, drawn at a scale of one inch equals 200 feet and showing the
location of all abutting streets, the location of all existing and proposed
structures, the types of buildings and their intended use.
         (c)   Review of Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
review the proposed development, as presented, on the submitted plans and
specifications in terms of the conditions established in division (C) below of
this section. In cases where the Commission requests a report from a
consultant, the applicant shall submit the report along with a receipt for the
cost of such report. Such review shall be completed and made public within 60
days of the regular monthly meeting of the Commission following the date the
application was submitted.
         (d)   Public hearing. After adequate review and study of any
application, the Commission shall hold a public hearing upon every application
after at least one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village prior to the date of the hearing. Such notice shall indicate the place,
time and subject of the hearing.
         (e)   Issuance and revocation of conditional zoning certificates. Only
upon conclusion of hearing procedures, relative to a particular application,
may the Commission issue a conditional zoning certificate. The breach of any
safeguard, condition or requirement shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. Such violation shall be declared as a nuisance per se as per §§
154.184 through
154.186 and §
154.999.
         (f)   Continuation of existing uses declared to be conditionally
permissible. Any use existing at the time of enactment of this chapter and
conditionally permissible within their respective districts under this chapter
shall be issued a conditional zoning certificate by the Zoning Inspector within
one year after the enactment of this chapter.
(`94 Code, § 1151.02)
   (C)   Basis of determination.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall establish beyond reasonable doubt
that the specific standards listed below and pertinent to each conditionally
permitted use shall be satisfied by the completion and operation of the
proposed development. The Commission may also impose such additional
conditions, standards or safeguards deemed necessary for the general welfare,
for the protection of individual property rights and for insuring that the
intent and objectives of this chapter will be observed.
      (2)   Regulations pertaining to conditionally permitted uses as listed in
§
154.020 et seq.
         (a)   All structures and activity areas shall be located at least 100
feet from all property lines.
         (b)   All points of ingress and egress should be located no closer
than 200 feet from the intersection of two major thoroughfares and no closer
than 100 feet from the intersection of a major thoroughfare and a local or
collector thoroughfare.
         (c)   Points of ingress and egress shall be available only from
abutting major thoroughfares or collector streets and shall not be available
from any local residential street.
         (d)   Such structures should be located next to parks and other
nonresidential uses such as schools and shopping facilities where use can be
made of joint parking facilities.
         (e)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat,
orderly condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any
individual or to the community as a whole. The area of use shall be completely
enclosed by a six foot high fence (measured from the average grade of the
ground) and appropriately landscaped to be harmonious with surrounding
properties.
         (f)   Such uses shall be secondary in importance to the use of the
dwelling unit for dwelling purposes and shall meet the following conditions:
            1.   Such uses shall be conducted by the occupant with no
additional employees.
            2.   Such occupations shall be carried on entirely within the
dwelling unit and not in an accessory building; however, the garage may be used
providing the occupation does not preclude the storage of the number of
vehicles for which the garage was designed.
            3.   The home occupation shall not occupy more than 30% of the
gross first floor living area of any one dwelling unit.
            4.   No activity, materials, goods or equipment indicative of the
proposed use shall be visible from any public thoroughfare of adjacent
property.
            5.   For purposes of advertising, there shall be no more than one
sign or identification plate to exceed two square feet in area.
         (g)   No lighting shall constitute a nuisance and shall in no way
impair the safe movement of traffic on any street or thoroughfare. No lighting
shall shine directly onto adjacent properties.
         (h)   Such structures should be located on collector streets.
         (i)   Site locations should be preferred that offer natural or manmade
barriers that would lessen the effects of intrusion into a residential,
business or industrial area.
         (j)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat,
orderly condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, any
individual or to the community as a whole.
         (k)   Loudspeakers which cause a hazard or annoyance shall not be
permitted.
         (l)   Such uses should not require the uneconomical extension of
utility systems at the expense of the community.
         (m)   There shall be no more than one sign oriented to each abutting
road identifying the activity. All signs shall be located no less than 25 feet
from the street right-of-way line and shall not exceed a total sign area of ten
square feet.
         (n)   Strip or open pit mining operations shall be required to meet
the following conditions:
            1.   A completely enclosed fence six feet in height shall be
provided around the entire periphery of the development.
            2.   All areas within any single development shall be rehabilitated
progressively as they are worked out or abandoned to a condition of being
entirely lacking in hazards, inconspicuous and blended with the general
surrounding ground form so as to appear reasonably natural. Areas shall be
completely and continually drained of water when not in use or not supervised
by a watchman. All slopes and banks shall be reasonably graded and treated to
prevent erosion or any other potential deterioration. No rehabilitated slope
shall exceed an angle with the horizontal of 30 degrees.
            3.   Established routes for truck movements into and out of the
development shall be indicated in such a way that they will minimize the wear
on public streets and damage to any adjoining property.
            4.   Topsoil may be stripped from the roadway and construction and
excavation areas, piled separately but not removed from the site or used as
spoil. As many trees as can be reasonably utilized in the final development
plan should be retained, and the grading should be adjusted to the grade at the
existing least of the trees.
         (o)   A minimum of 150 square feet of outdoor play area for each child
shall be provided and maintained on the lot. Such play space shall have a total
minimum area of not less than 5,000 square feet and shall be screened from any
adjoining lot in any residential district.
         (p)   Institutions for medical care shall meet the following
conditions:
            1.   Such structures shall not exceed a height of four stories.
            2.   All such hospitals shall be developed only on sites consisting
of five total acres in area.
            3.   The proposed site shall have at least one property line
abutting a major thoroughfare and all ingress and egress for the site shall be
directly from such major thoroughfare.
            4.   The minimum distance of any main or accessory building from
bounding lot lines or streets shall be at least 100 feet for front, side and
rear yards for all two-story structures. For every story above two, the minimum
yard distance shall be increased by not less than ten feet.
            5.   Ambulance and delivery areas shall be obscured from view by a
continuous and obscuring wall or fence six feet in height.
         (q)   Gasoline service stations shall meet the following conditions:
            1.   Curb cuts for ingress and egress to a service station shall
not be permitted at such locations that will tend to create traffic hazards in
the streets immediately adjacent thereto. Entrance shall be no less 75 feet
from a street intersection (measured from the street right-of-way) or from
adjacent residential districts.
            2.   The minimum lot area shall be 20,000 square feet, and so
arranged that ample space is available for motor vehicles which are required to
wait.
            3.   Understorage gasoline tanks shall be located not less than 50
feet from any R or MF District and along the side lot line adjacent to the
residential district only.
         (r)   Retail sales of garden equipment and plant material shall meet
the following conditions:
            1.   Such uses shall be located at the exterior end of the building
masses located in B-1 Business District.
            2.   Equipment, including the sale of outdoor lawn furniture,
playground equipment and garden supplies shall provide a four-foot high
obscuring fence wherever the proposed use abuts onto a residential district and
on the side abutting the residential district only.
         (s)   Motels shall meet the following conditions:
            1.   Ingress and egress shall be provided so as not to conflict
with the adjacent business uses or adversely effect the movement of traffic
along a major thoroughfare.
            2.   Each sleeping unit within the structure shall contain not less
than 200 square feet of floor area.
            3.   No guest shall establish permanent residence at a motel for
more than 30 days within any calendar year.
         (t)   The entire activity shall be conducted within a totally enclosed
main building. Further, all abutting or adjacent properties shall be zoned for
B-1, B-2, I-1 or 1-2 purposes.
         (u)   Such uses shall be permitted if in the opinion of the Planning
Commission they are intended to serve the convenience needs of persons working
in the 1-1 Industrial District.
         (n)   Outdoor sales space for new and secondhand automobiles, house
trailers, etc.:
            1.   The lot or area shall be provided with a permanent durable and
dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water accumulated within the area.
            2.   Ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area shall be at least
60 feet from the intersection of any two streets.
            3.   No major repair or major refinishing shall be done on the lot.
(`94 Code, § 1151.03)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any building or premises or part thereof, where
anything in violation of this chapter shall be placed or shall exist, any
tenant or occupant of such building or premises, and any architect, builder or
contractor who assists in the commission of any such violation, and any person
who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or fails to comply
therewith, where no other penalty is provided, shall for each violation of
noncompliance, be fined not less than $25 nor more than $300. Each day such
violation or failure to comply exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(`94 Code, § 1145.99)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
154.023 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(`94 Code, § 1161.99)  (Ord. 26-82, passed 12-28-82)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
154.120 through
154.138 for which no other penalty is provided shall be fined not less than $5
nor more than $100. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. The owner of any building
or premise or part thereof, where any thing in violation of those sections is
placed or exists and any architect, builder, contractor, agent or person
employed in connection therewith and who may have assisted in the commission of
any such violation shall be guilty of a separate offense.
(`94 Code, § 1179.99)  (Ord. 4-93, passed 2-9-92)
   (D)   Whoever violates the provisions of either §
154.151(A) or (B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. 16-95, passed 6-13-95)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Table
      
I.   ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
      
III.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
IV.   DEDICATION AND PLAT APPROVAL
      
V.   EASEMENTS
      
VI.   FRANCHISES
      
VII.   LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
      
VIII.   STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
      
IX.   VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
X.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I:  ACQUISITION AND DISPOSAL OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
8-62 5-15-  Purchase of parts of Outlot 6 and Inlot 180 from George Bevier
     62
10-  4-2-63 Purchase of parts of Lots 127 and 129 in Section 1 of New Haven Township from
63          George B. And Nellie B. Sickle
11-  4-2-63 Purchase of parts of Lots 127, 128 and 129 in Section 1 of New Haven Township
63          from Nell Sickle aka Nellie I. Sickle and Isabelle Bishop Moore
12-  5-7-63 Purchase of the Hubach property on Sandusky Street
63
24-  6-16-  Purchase of property in the southeast corner of Great Lot 114 and the
64   64     southerly part of Great Lot 113 in Section 1 of New Haven Township, from
            Agnes H. McKown
12-  3-16-  Purchase of property in the southcentral part of Great Lot 163 in Section 4
65   65     of New Haven Township from William and Henrietta Van Loo, for sewer purposes
4-67 3-27-  Sale of Lots 245 through 247, to the Fate-Root- Heath, Co.
     67
9-68 6-3-68 Authorizing the sale of property in the vicinity of North St. and Plymouth
            East Road
1-75 2-4-75 Authorizing the appropriation of property from Elsie Oney and the heirs of
            William Oney
4-75 4-15-  Authorizing the appropriation of property from Roy and Miriam Johnson
     75
20-  7-6-76 Purchase of Lots 96, 97 and 144, together with a 12 foot wide strip of land
76          extending along the north side of Lot 144, from the Bachrach Co.
13-  7-10-  Authorizing the sale of Lots 144 and 145 and a 12-foot wide strip of land
78   78     extending along the north side of such lots
3-83 1-26-  Authorizing the exchange of 8½ acres owned by the village for 0.406 acres
     83     owned by Jacque Donnenwirth, et al.
8-83 2-15-  Authorizing the conveyance of property to Tri- County Asphalt, Inc., in
     83     exchange for paving and excavation services
10-  9-26-  Amends Ord. 8-83
83   83
12-  6-12-  Directs purchase of Mary Fate Park Community Pool, Inc. property from Farmers
84   84     Home Administration
17-  9-12-  Directs purchase of Trustcorp Bank Building and premises, 49 Sandusky Street
89   89
7-94 4-12-  Executing deeds of conveyance for property contained within the Village of
     94     Plymouth Industrial Park to William H. Fetzer.
          Parcel 1: Being part of Great Lot 151, Quarter 1, Village of Plymouth,
            containing 0.5088 acre
          Parcel 2: Being part of Great Lots 151 and 152, Quarter 1, containing 3.0018
            acres
25-  12-13- Authorizing the Mayor to purchase certain real property from Christopher Zara
94   94     and Wanda Zara, containing 4.7929 acres
9-95 4-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into contracts for sale of certain land
     95     belonging to the village
3-97 2-11-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into contracts for the sale of certain land
     97     belonging to the village.
          Parcel 1: Part of Great Lot 151, Quarter 1, Township 1, Range 23, New Haven
            Township containing 1.8200 acres
          Parcel 2:  Part of Great Lot 152, Quarter 1, Township 1, Range 23, New Haven
            Township, containing 1.5003 acres
          Parcel 3:  Part of Great Lot 151, Quarter 1, Township 1, Range 23, New Haven
            Township
15-  8-12-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with The Board of Education of
2003 03     the Plymouth-Shiloh Local School District for the purchase of certain
            property
3-   1-13-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a trade agreement with Randall Adams to
2004 04     exchange certain premises, being part of Great Lot 161, for a 50-foot strip
            of land extending from Sandusky Street to the Village park
–  2-10-  Conveying certain property, being a 0.67 acre parcel, to Randall Adams
     04
33-  11-14- Authorizing a contract of the sale of certain land belonging to the village
06   06
27-  12-11- Authorizing the sale of village Lot 144
2007 07
—  2-26-  Authorizing the sale of village Lot 144 to Timothy Redden
     08
23-  5-27-  Authorizing the sale of village Lot No. 96
2008 08
4-   1-13-  Authorizing the sale of village Lot No. 96
2009 09
Res. 7-28-  Authorizing the sale of village property located at 66 Walnut Street to
22-  09     Optimax Manufacturing Solutions, Inc.
2009
2-   1-12-  Transferring ownership interest of the North Street Bridge No. NH 253-00.39
2010 10     from the village to the Engineer of Huron County
19-  10-12- Authorizing the sale of Village Parcel Number 23-024E-03-043-0000 and Village
2010 10     Parcel Number 23-024E-03-044-0000
21-  11-9-  Authorizing the sale of Village Parcel Number 23-024D-010-0000, Lot 107 N
2010 10     END.
7-   3-27-  Authorizing the sale of Village Lot 108 in the Light Addition (172 West
2012 12     Broadway Street)
14-  8-14-  Authorizing the sale of real property located at 170 West Broadway Street
2012 12
Res.        Accepting from Wells Fargo Bank title and ownership of property at 85 W.
8-   5-9-17 Broadway Street
2017
11-  6-13-  Authorizing the sale of property located at 85 W. Broadway Street
2017 17
Res. 8-15-
17-  17     Transfer of landlocked 0.3111 acre parcel
2017
21-  11-14- Authorizing the sale of the village’s former police station and parking lot
2017 17     located at 25 & 29 Sandusky Street
Res. 3-23-  Real estate purchase agreement with the Richland County Land Reutilization
7-   21     Corporation for the purchase of the vacant lot at 20 E. Main Street
2021
8-   4-13-  Real estate purchase agreement with Plymouth Locomotive Service, LLC for
2021 21     property owned by the village, a vacant parcel located on the east end of
            Donnenwirth Avenue
10-  4-13-  Authorizing the transfer of the village-owned 1.6253 acre vacant parcel to
2021 21     the Richland County, Ohio Community Improvement Corporation
           
 
TABLE II:  ANNEXATIONS AND DETACHMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.     Date Passed Description
                         Annexation of all of that part of the southwest
18-68        10-15-68    addition that originally was outside the village,
                         except 30 feet in the southwest part thereof, from
                         Gail and James Bailey, et al.
                         Annexation of territory in the vicinity of Base Line
18-70        9-22-70     Road at the intersection of the westerly line of
                         Section 6, Plymouth Township from Raymond L. Brooks,
                         et al.
3-89         2-14-89     Authorizes annexation of Sarah Hortom property (5.0
                         acres)
6-89         3-14-89     Authorizes annexation of 4.9533 acres of Great Lot
                         137, Section 1, New Haven Township
                         Authorizing the annexation of certain territory, being
26-94        12-20-94    part of Great Lots 127, 128, 129, 136 and 137, Section
                         1, of New Haven Township, consisting of approximately
                         158.7839 acres
                         Authorizing the annexation of certain territory, being
1-98         2-24-98     part of Great Lots 127 and 128 Section 1, New Haven
                         Township consisting of 3.0010 acres
7-98         3-10-98     Authorizing the annexation of certain territory being
                         part of Outlot 47
03-2002      1-8-02      Authorizing the annexation of certain territory in the
                         village containing 133.869 acres of land
Res. 14-2006 10-24-06    Authorizing services to be provided upon annexation of
                         certain territory
                         Accepting the annexation of 31.5683 acres as provided
24-2007      8-14-07     by the petition of Frederick J. Kammers, Comfort
                         Estates, LLC and Larry and Sharon Goble.
19-2009      7-28-09     Accepting the annexation of 2.1821 acres located in
                         New Haven Township.
                         Entering into an annexation agreement with the Board
Res. 31-2009 11-13-09    of Township Trustees of Plymouth Township, for the
                         1.177 acre parcel located in the northeast quarter of
                         Section 5 of Plymouth Township.
                         Assenting to the petition for detachment of Joel A.
5-2021       3-23-21     Hoover and Rosene B. Hoover being part of the
                         southeast quarter of Section 6 of Plymouth Township.
                        
 
TABLE III:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
12-  5-22-  Authorizing a contract for professional engineering services to conduct
2001 01     evaluation of the potable water distribution system, wastewater collection
            and treatment system and stormwater management system
18-  6-26-  Authorizing a contract with American Legal Publishing for codification
2001 01     services
20-  6-26-  Authorizing  a contract for the provision of municipal income tax collection
2001 01     services with the Regional Income Tax Agency
9-   3-26-  Authorizing a mutual aid agreement for additional fire protection between the
2002 02     Village of Plymouth and the City of Willard
11-         Authorizing a contract for consulting and advisory services relating to the
2002 4-9-02 Electric, water and wasterwater utility operations with Courtney and
            Associates
12-         Authorizing a contract for consulting engineering services to prepare designs
2002 4-9-02 and construct the Plymouth West Broadway Lift Station with K. E. McCartney
            and Associates, Inc.
14-  4-9-02 Authorizing a contract with Auburn Township for the provision of rescue and
2002        other ambulance emergency service
15-  4-23-  Authorizing a contract with New Haven Township for the provision of rescue
2002 02     and ambulance emergency service
16-  4-23-  Authorizing a contract with New Haven Township for the provision of fire and
2002 02     other emergency protection
21-  5-14-  Authorizing a contract for consulting engineering services for phase two of
02   02     the Plymouth water distribution upgrade project with K.E. McCartney and
            Associates, Inc.
31-  12-10- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Plymouth Township for the
2002 02     provision of fire and other emergency protection
32-  12-10- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Plymouth Township for the
2002 02     provision of rescue and ambulance emergency service
36-  12-10- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a renewal contract with Richard P. Wolfe
2002 02     for the provision of legal services to the village
7-   2-25-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into an agreement with the American
2003 03     Red Cross for the use of village facilities for disaster aid programs
8-03 3-26-  Authorizing the execution of a base load developmental cost sharing agreement
     03     by the village with American Municipal Power - Ohio, Inc.
11-  5-13-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into contracts for the purchase of
2003 03     certain equipment for the village
12-  5-13-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into contracts for the purchase of
2003 03     certain equipment for the village
16-  8-12-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into a loan agreement for a real
2003 03     property purchase with the 1st National Bank of Shelby
19-  8-26-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into an agreement with American
2003 03     Municipal Power to participate in rescue training programs
21-  10-28- Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract with Poggemeyer Design
2003 03     Group, Inc., for professional design and bidding services relating to the
            pump station improvement project
30-  12-23- Authorizing the Administrator to enter into an agreement with 1st National
2003 03     Bank of Shelby for a three-year loan for the purchase of a Ford Explorer for
            the Police Department
Res. 5-25-  Authorizing the village to contract with the Huron County Emergency
5-   04     Management Agency
2004
15-  5-25-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract for consulting
04   04     engineering services relating to the sewer line erosion rededication project
18-  6-8-04 Authorizing the Administrator to enter into agreements with the American Red
04          Cross for the use of village facilities for disaster aid programs
21-  8-10-  Authorizing the Mayor to renew a loan agreement for a real property purchase
2004 04
23-  9-28-  Authorizing the Administrator to advertise for bids and to enter into
2004 04     contracts for street resurfacing
31-  10-26- Authorizing the Mayor and Village Fiscal Officer to enter into a renewal
04   04     contract for the provision of legal services
36-  11-23- Authorizing the Mayor and Village Fiscal Officer to enter into a contract
2004 04     with Auburn Township for the provision of rescue and other ambulance
            emergency service
37-  11-23- Authorizing the Mayor and Village Fiscal Officer to enter into a contract
2004 04     with New Haven Township for the provision of rescue and ambulance emergency
            service
38-  11-23- Authorizing the Mayor and Village Fiscal Officer to enter into a contract
04   04     with New Haven Township for the provisions of fire and other emergency
            protection
            Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement to establish a uniform
1-05 2-8-05 accounting network and authorizing the Village Fiscal Officer to execute such
            user agreements as are necessary to implement the uniform accounting network
            agreement
7-05 3-8-05 Authorizing the Mayor to enter into agreements with suppliers of wholesale
            electric power and related services
            Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract for the purchase of
8-05 3-22-  certain equipment for the Police Department through the state purchasing
     05     program; authorizing the entering of a loan agreement for the purchase
            thereof
12-  4-26-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract for the purchase of
05   05     security equipment, long term monitoring and maintenance
Res. 5-10-  Authorizing the village to contract with the Huron County Emergency
10-  05     Management Agency
2005
Res. 6-14-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into an agreement with the Ohio
11-  05     Department of Natural Resources for the purpose of acquiring funds through
2005        the Nature Works Local Grant Program
13-  5-10-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract through the state
2005 05     purchasing program for the purchase of one 2005 Ford F-250 vehicle
15-  6-14-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into an agreement for the payment of a
05   05     portion of the replacement cost for certain drainage tile upon private
            property
20-  7-26-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract for the purchase of a
05   05     portable, multi- voltage generator
21-  7-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a agreement for the use of certain public
05   05     facilities as a mass care shelter
22-  8-9-05 Authorizing the Mayor to re-new a loan agreement for real property purchase
05
24-  8-23-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract for consulting
2005 05     engineering services with Brandsetter, Carrol & Zofcin, Inc. for professional
            services relating to the renovation of the Mary Fate Park swimming pool
34-  11-22- Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract for the purchase of
05   05     certain equipment for the utility departments of the village through the
            state purchasing program
            Authorizing and directing the municipality to execute a mutual aid agreement
35-  11-22- with interstate and intrastate participating municipalities with municipal
05   05     electric systems, in order to be able to receive and provide mutual
            assistance during times of emergencies
36-  12-13- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter and Clerk-Treasurer to enter
05   05     into a contract with Plymouth Township for the provision of rescue and
            ambulance emergency service
37-  12-13- Authorizing and directing the Mayor and/or village fiscal officer to enter
05   05     into an agreement to establish a net teller cash management system with the
            Citizen's Banking System as the originating depository financial institution
41-  12-13- Authorizing and directing the Administrator to advertise for bids and enter
05   05     into a contract or contracts for the sale and removal of certain timber from
            property of the village
42-  12-13- Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into a timber sale
05   05     administration contract; obviating formal advertising and bidding
43-  12-13- Authorizing and directing the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer to enter into a
05   05     contract with Plymouth Township for the provision of fire and other emergency
            protection
1-06 1-24-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into a site access
     06     agreement pursuant to an environmental site investigation
2-06 1-24-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract for the purchase of
     06     certain equipment for the village through the state purchasing program
     1-24-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into an agreement with the State of
3-06 06     Ohio Department of Transportation, giving consent for resurfacing and other
            improvements to parts of State Routes 98 and 61
5-06 2-14-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into an agreement with the American
     06     Red Cross for use of village facilities for disaster aid programs
6-06 2-28-  Authorizing and directing the execution of a hydro matrix development cost-
     06     sharing agreement by the village with American Municipal Power-Ohio, Inc.
Res. 5-23-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into a software license
6-06 06     subscription agreement; obviating formal advertising and bidding
Res. 5-23-  Contracting with the Huron County Emergency Management Agency for emergency
7-06 06     services
            Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into a contract for
8-06 2-28-  consulting services with Brandstetter, Carroll and Zofcin, Inc., for
     06     professional services related to renovation of the Mary Fate Park swimming
            pool
9-06 2-28-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to advertise for bids and enter
     06     into a contract for the purchase of certain equipment for the village
10-  2-28-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into an agreement to
06   06     establish a website for the village pursuant to said agreement
Res. 6-27-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into a software license
10-  06     subscription agreement; obviating formal licensing and bidding
06
13-  3-28-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a loan agreement for the purchase of
06   06     certain equipment for the village
14-  3-28-  Authorizing the Mayor to sign a contract with American Electric Power Company
06   06
15-  4-11-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a contract for certain
06   06     renovations to the swimming pool at Mary Fate Park; ratifying and approving
            all such actions previously taken regarding such contract for such renovation
18-  6-13-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to advertise for bids and to
06   06     enter into contracts for street resurfacing
23-         Authorizing the Administrator to enter into a rental agreement for certain
06   8-8-06 equipment for the administrative offices of the village through the state
            purchasing proram
24-  8-8-06 Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into an agreement for the
06          provision of paramedic assistance
26-  8-8-06 Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into a contract for
06          business support with Healthserve LLC, services for ambulance billing
28-  9-12-  Authorizing the execution of a master services agreement
06   06
29-  9-12-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into a modification of
06   06     the street resurfacing contract
30-  9-12-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into a contract for
06   06     professional engineering services pertaining to the preparation of the
            wastewater treatment plan improvement preliminary engineering report
36-  11-28- Authorizing  and directing the Mayor and the Village Fiscal Officer to enter
06   06     into an agreement amendment with New Haven Township for the provision of
            rescue and other ambulance emergency service
37-  11-28- Authorizing  and directing the Mayor and the Village Fiscal Officer to enter
06   06     into an agreement with Plymouth Township for the provision of rescue and
            other ambulance emergency service
38-  11-28- Authorizing  and directing the Administrator to enter into a contract for
2006 06     professional engineering services for the village sanitary sewer infiltration
            and inflow evaluation and report project
39-  11-28- Authorizing  and directing the Mayor and the Village Fiscal Officer to enter
06   06     into an agreement amendment with Auburn Township for the provision of rescue
            and other ambulance emergency service
43-  12-26- Authorizing the execution of a hydro developmental cost sharing agreement
06   06     with the American Municipal Power-Ohio Inc. and repealing Ord. 6-06
Res. 2-27-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to seek bids and contract with
1-   07     the lowest and best bidder for water tank maintenance services
2007
3-   2-27-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into an agreement with
2007 07     eh Huron County, Ohio Engineer for replacement of the North Street Bridge
5-   2-27-  Authorizing the execution of the Omeg pool participant schedule and non-pool
2007 07     power sales agreement
Res. 3-13-  Authorizing the Administrator to enter into an elevated water tank repair
4-   07     agreement with utility service Co. Inc. for $22,278
2007
Res. 3-13-  Entering into a wireless communications management agreement with Utility
5-   07     Service Communications Co.
2007
Res. 3-27-
6-   07     Entering into an agreement with the regional income tax agency
2007
Res. 4-10-
9-   07     Contract for emergency services with the office of Homeland Security
2007
Res. 4-24-  Entering into an agreement with the Mansfield/Ontario/Richland County
11-  07     combined health district for its 2007 preventive Mosquito Control Program
2007
Res.
14-  5-8-07 Entering into a five year depository contract with Citizens Banking Company
2007
19-  5-22-  Authorizing the execution of a power sales contract with American Municipal
2007 07     Power- Ohio, Inc.
Res. 7-10-  Awarding a contract to Fire-Safety Services, Inc. for the purchase of
18-  07     firefighter protective coats and trousers
07
Res. 8-24-  Approving the form and authorizing the execution of a power sales contract
19-  07     with American Municipal Power - Ohio, Inc.
2007
Res. 8-14-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to seek bids and contract for the
21-  07     West Broadway Street Repaving Project
2007
Res. 8-14-  Authorizing and directing the Administrator to enter into an agreement with
22-  07     the Board of Richland County Commissioners and Hoover construction services
2007        for the Mary Fate Park ADA Restrooms for $49,200
Res. 9-25-  Approving the form and authorize the execution of a power sales contract with
25-  07     American Municipal Power, Ohio, Inc. and taking other actions in connection
2007        therewith regarding the Prairie State Energy campus
Res. 9-25-  Approving the form and authorize the execution of a power sales contract with
26-  07     American Municipal Power - Ohio, Inc. and taking other actions in connection
2007        therewith regarding hydroelectric project participation
Res. 9-25-  Authorizing the Administrator to advertise for bids and contract for the
27-  07     purchase of storage building construction materials
2007
Res.        Authorizing mutual aid agreements for additional fire protection between AVR
29-  11-13- Fire Department, Bellevue, Tri-Community Joint Fire District, Juron River
2007 07     Joint Fire District, New Washington, North Fairfield, Norwalk and the City of
            Willard, Ohio
Res. 11-13- Amending Res. 25-2007 to increase the nominal amount of kilowatts that may be
31-  07     acquired by the Village Administrator from 300 to 500
2007
Res. 11-27- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a contract with Amy Skropits to be the
32-  07     Mayor’s Court Magistrate
2007
Res. 11-27- Entering into an extensive addendum to memorandum of agreement with Charles
33-  07     E. Harris and Associates to conduct a 2-year fiscal audit of January 1, 2006
2007        to December 31, 2007
28-  12-11- Entering into an agreement to provide rescue and ambulance services to Auburn
07   07     Township, Crawford County, Ohio, for a three year term commencing January 1,
            2008
29-  12-11- Entering into an agreement to provided rescue and ambulance emergency
07   07     protection to New Haven Township, Huron County, Ohio for a three year term
            commencing January 1, 2008
30-  12-11- Entering into an agreement to provide fire and other emergency protection to
07   07     New Haven Township, Huron County, Ohio for a three year term commencing
            January 1, 2008
Res. 1-22-  Entering into an agreement with the Ohio Water Development Authority for a
2-   08     low interest loan to repair and improve the Riggs Street Water Tower
2008
3-   1-22-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into an agreement for the
2008 08     provision of paramedic assistance
11-  2-12-  Authorizing a cooperative agreement for construction, maintenance, and
2008 08     operation of a water project between the village and the Ohio Water
            Development Authority
Res. 3-25-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a Mutual Aid Fire Protection Agreement
5-   08     with the Village of New Washington
2008
Res.        Authorizing the Mayor and Village Fiscal Officer to enter into a COBRA
6-   4-8-08 Administrative Services Agreement, a Business Associate Agreement, and a
2008        certification to group health Plan with Arcadia Benefits Group Inc.
Res.        Authorizing the Mayor and Village Fiscal Officer to enter into a contract
10-  4-8-08 with Credit Adjustments, Inc.
2008
Res. 4-22-  Authorizing an agreement with the Mansfield/ Ontario/Richland County Combined
12-  08     Health District for its 2008 Preventive Mosquito Control Program
2008
Res. 4-22-  Authorizing a contract with the Huron County Emergency Management Agency for
13-  08     emergency management services
2008
Res. 5-13-  Awarding the construction project administration and inspection services
15-  08     contract for the Riggs Street Water Tank Rehabilitation Project to K.E.
2008        McCartney and Associates, Inc.
Res. 5-27-  Authorizing the rock salt purchase agreement with the Richland County Board
16-  08     of Commissioners for 2008/2009
2008
Res. 8-12-  Authorizing a loan agreement for $212,350 with the Ohio Water Development
27-  08     Authority for wastewater treatment improvement design costs
2008
Res. 8-19-  Entering into a contract with JPI painting to apply the Series 406 Interior
29-  08     Wet Surface Paint System to the Riggs Street Water Tank because of a real and
2008        present emergency
Res. 12-9-  Authorizing a three-year agreement for rescue and ambulance emergency
37-  08     services commencing January 1, 2009
2008
Res. 12-9-  Authorizing a three-year agreement for fire and other emergency protection
38-  08     commencing January 1, 2009
2008
Res. 1-13-  Authorizing an agreement with Critical Life Emergency Medical Service for
1-   09     paramedic assistance
2009
Res. 4-14-  Authorizing the Mayor to apply for, accept and enter into an OEPA/OWDA Water
7-   09     Pollution Control Loan Fund agreement for the construction of a new
2009        wastewater treatment plant and designating a dedicated source of repayment
Res. 4-28-  Authorizing an agreement with the Mansfield/ Ontario/Richland County combined
8-   09     health district for its 2009 Preventive Mosquito Control Program
2009
Res. 5-26-  Authorizing the Village Administrator and Fiscal Officer to enter into 60-
15-  09     month Time Warner Cable business class service agreements for office/police
2009        and fire applications
Res. 6-23-  Entering into a paramedic assistance agreement with Medic Response and
18-  09     Mansfield Ambulance Service for the term from July 1, 2009 to December 31,
2009        2010
Res. 7-28-  Entering into a contract for professional services with the WSOS Community
21-  09     Action Commission
2009
Res. 7-28-  Authorizing a contract with Erie Blacktop for the West Broadway and Plymouth-
23-  09     Springmill Resurfacing Projects
2009
Res. 8-25-  Authorizing a contract with Midwest Compost Inc., for sludge removal and
24-  09     disposal from the Wastewater Treatment Plant
2009
24-  11-13- Awarding contracts for the construction of the Wastewater Treatment Plant
2009 09     Improvements
Res. 12-12- Approving power sales contracts with American Municipal Power, Inc., and
32-  09     taking other actions in connection therewith regarding Meldahl and Greenup
2009        Hydroelectric Project participation
Res. 12-12- Authorizing an agreement with Critical Life Emergency Medical Service for
33-  09     paramedic assistance
2009
1-   1-12-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to make contracts on behalf of the
2010 10     village for the construction of the Wastewater Treatment Plant Improvements
3-   2-11-  Entering into a 20-year water purchase agreement with the City of Willard
2010 10
Res.        Entering into a paramedic assistance agreement with the City of Willard for
5-   3-9-10 the period of March 1, 2010 to February 29, 2012
2010
Res. 4-13-  Entering into an agreement with the Mansfield/ Ontario/Richland County
7-   10     Combined Health District for its 2010 Preventive Mosquito Control Program
2010
Res. 4-13-  Authorizing a contract with the Huron County Emergency Management Agency for
8-   10     emergency management services, for the period of July 1, 2010 to June 30,
2010        2011.  This contract will be renewable on a yearly basis
Res. 5-11-  Authorizing the Rock Salt Purchase Agreement with the Richland County Board
9-   10     of Commissioners for 2010/2011
2010
Res. 6-22-  Authorizing a contract with Breathing Air Systems for the purchase of a
17-  10     breathing air compressor and cascade fill station
2010
Res. 8-24-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to enter into a contract with Erie
26-  10     Blacktop for the North Street Resurfacing Project
2010
Res. 8-26-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to enter into a contract with Erie
28-  10     Blacktop for the Lincoln Court Resurfacing Project
2010
Res. 10-12- Amending the engineering contract with K.E. McCartney and Associates, Inc.,
31-  10     for additional services of relocating the new water storage tank
2010
Res. 10-12- Authorizing a cooperative agreement for planning of a State Wastewater
32-  10     Project between the village and the Ohio Water Development Authority
2010
Res.        Authorizing the Mayor to submit an application to participate in the Ohio
33-  10-12- Public Works Commission State Capital Improvements Program for Grant Funds
2010 10     for the proposed Willow Drive Sewer Separation Project, and to execute
            contracts as required
Res. 10-12- Authorizing a cooperative agreement for planning of a State Water Project
35-  10     between the village and the Ohio Water Development Authority
2010
Res. 11-9-  Entering into a contract with MBI Solutions, Inc. for providing ambulance and
37-  10     emergency transport billing services
2010
Res. 12-14- Entering into an agreement with the Director of Transportation for the State
38-  10     of Ohio for resurfacing part of S.R. 61
2010
Res. 12-14- Entering into a one year agreement for rescue and ambulance emergency
39-  10     services commencing January 1, 2011 with the Board of Township Trustees of
2010        Plymouth Township
Res. 12-14- Entering into a three year agreement for rescue and ambulance emergency
40-  10     services commencing January 1, 2011 with the Board of Township Trustees of
2010        Auburn Township
Res. 12-14- Entering into a three year agreement for rescue and ambulance emergency
41-  10     services commencing January 1, 2011 with the Board of Township Trustees of
2010        New Haven Township
Res. 12-14- Entering into a three year agreement for fire and other emergency protection
42-  10     commencing January 1, 2011 with the Board of Township Trustees of New Haven
2010        Township
Res.        Authorizing the Mayor and Fiscal Officer to enter into an agreement with
2-   2-8-11 Critical Life Emergency Medical Service for paramedic assistance
2011
Res.        Authorizing the Mayor and Fiscal Officer to enter into an agreement with
3-   2-8-11 Quality Care EMS of Shelby for paramedic assistance
2011
Res.        Authorizing the Mayor and Fiscal Officer to enter into an agreement with
4-   2-8-11 Mansfield Ambulance Service for paramedic assistance
2011
Res.        Authorizing the Mayor and Fiscal Officer to enter into an agreement with
5-   2-8-11 Medic Response for paramedic assistance
2011
9-   3-22-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to contract with Richland County
2011 11     Engineer for the purchase of road salt for the 2011 and 2012 winter seasons
10-  4-12-  Authorizing the execution of a power sales contract with American Municipal
2011 11     Power, Inc. and taking other actions in connection therewith regarding
            participation in the AMP Fremont Energy Center
13-  4-12-  Authorizing cooperative agreement for construction, maintenance, and
2011 11     operation of a water project between the Village and the Ohio Water
            Development Authority
Res. 8-23-  Entering into a Water Tower Insurance Agreement with the Board of Education
10-  11     of the Plymouth-Shiloh Local School District
2011
Res. 10-11- Authorizing the Village Administrator to enter into a contract with K.E.
17-  11     McCartney & Associates for professional engineering services for the Willow
2011        Drive Sewer Separation Project
Res. 12-27- Authorizing a three year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of
22-  11     Plymouth Township, Richland County, for rescue and ambulance emergency
2011        services commencing January 1, 2012
Res. 12-27- Authorizing a three year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of
23-  11     Plymouth Township, Richland County, for fire and other emergency protection
2011        commencing January 1, 2012
Res. 12-27- Entering into a five year contract commencing January 1, 2012 with Rumpke of
24-  11     Northern Ohio, Inc. for solid waste services
2011
Res. 2-14-  Entering into a paramedic assistance agreement with the City of Willard for
4-   12     the period of March 1, 2012 to December 31, 2015
2012
Res. 4-24-  Authorizing a contract with the Huron County Emergency Management Agency for
11-  12     emergency management services for the period of July 1, 2012 to June 30,
2012        2013, renewable on a yearly basis
Res.
12-  5-8-12 Entering into a five year depository contract with Citizens Banking Company
2012
Res. 5-22-  Authorizing a cooperative agreement for construction, maintenance, and
16-  12     operation of a wastewater project between the village, Richland County and
2012        the Ohio Water Development Authority
Res. 6-26-  Authorizing the Mayor to renew a mutual aid fire protection agreement with
19-  12     the Village of New Washington
2012
13-  7-24-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to seek bids and contract for the
2012 12     purchase of asphalt exceeding $25,000
15-  8-14-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a loan agreement for the purchase of a
2012 12     Sutphen Custom Guardian Pumper Truck
16-  8-28-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to contract with the Richland County
2012 12     Engineer for the purchase of road salt for the 2012 and 2013 winter seasons
Res. 11-13-
27-  12     Contracting with David E. Hicks as the village’s wastewater technician
2012
Res.        Amending the engineering agreement with K.E. McCartney & Associates for the
3-   2-12-  Willow Drive Sewer Separation Project to permit assignment of surplus monies
2013 13     previously allotted to CCTV work and related preliminary engineering for
            final payment of both the Willow Drive Project and Water Tank Project
3-   2-26-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to enter into a joint use of poles
2013 13     agreement with OneCommunity, Inc.
Res. 3-26-
7-   13     Entering into a contract with Advanced Computer Connections, Inc.
2013
Res. 5-28-  Authorizing a contract with the Huron County Emergency Management Agency for
14-  13     emergency management services for the period of July 1, 2013 to June 30,
2013        2014, renewable on a yearly basis
Res. 5-28-  Entering into a Moving Ohio Forward Program Cooperative Administration
15-  13     Agreement with the City of Mansfield
2013
Res. 8-13-  Entering into contract modifications with Advanced Computer Connections, Inc.
17-  13     for necessary computer upgrades
2013
18-  9-10-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to contract with the Richland County
2013 13     Engineer for the purchase of road salt for the 2013 and 2014 winter seasons
19-  9-10-  Authorizing cooperative agreement for planning of a state water project
2013 13     between the village and the Ohio Water Development Authority
Res. 9-10-  Authorizing the Village Administrator to enter into an engineering services
20-  13     agreement with K.E. McCartney & Associates for the water system improvement -
2013        water line replacement project
Res. 10-22- Entering into a three-year agreement for rescue and ambulance emergency
22-  13     services commencing January 1, 2014 with the Board of Township Trustees of
2013        Auburn Township
Res. 10-22- Entering into a three-year agreement for rescue and ambulance emergency
23-  13     services commencing January 1, 2014 with the Board of Township Trustees of
2013        New Haven Township
Res. 10-22- Entering into a three-year agreement for fire and other emergency protection
24-  13     commencing January 1, 2014 with the Board of Township Trustees of New Have
2013        Township
Res. 10-22- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement with American EMS, DBA
25-  13     Mansfield Ambulance and/or Critical Life for paramedic assistance for a
2013        three-year term
Res. 1-29-
3-   14     Approving the ODOT contracts for the 2014 paving of State Route 98
2014
Res.        Authorizing and directing the Major to execute all documents relative to the
4-   2-25-  establishment of a certain water supply revolving loan account, and to
2014 14     execute all documents to allow the Mayor to enter into a water supply
            revolving loan account agreement with OEPA and OWDA
Res.        Authorizing a contract with the Huron County Emergency Management Agency for
9-   4-8-14 emergency management services for the period of July 1, 2014 to June 30,
2014        2015, renewable on a yearly basis
Res. 5-13-  Entering into a one-year computer service contract with Advanced Computer
10-  14     Connections, Inc.
2014
Res. 6-10-  Entering into a revised agreement for fire and other emergency protection
14-  15     with the Board of Township Trustees of New Haven Township commencing July 1,
2014        2014
Res. 6-10-  Entering into a revised agreement for rescue and ambulance emergency services
15-  14     with the Board of Township Trustees of New Haven Township commencing July 1,
2014        2014
Res. 6-24-  Authorizing the Mayor to enter into an agreement for lineman with the City of
19-  14     Shelby
2014
19-  8-12-  Authorizing the cooperative agreement for planning of a state wastewater
2014 14     project between the village and the Ohio Water Development Authority
24-  10-28- Authorizing the Village Administrator to contract with the Richland County
2014 14     Engineer for the purchase of road salt for the 2014 and 2015 winter seasons
Res. 12-23- Entering into a loan agreement with Ally Financial, Inc., for the lease of a
23-  14     2014 Chevrolet Caprice police cruiser
2014
Res. 12-23- Authorizing a three-year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of
25-  14     Plymouth Township for fire and other emergency protection commencing January
2014        1, 2015
Res. 12-23- Authorizing a three-year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of
26-  14     Plymouth Township for rescue and ambulance emergency services commencing
2014        January 1, 2015
Res. 4-28-  Contracting with Huron County Emergency Management Agency for emergency
5-   15     management services
2015
Res. 4-28-  Entering into a one- year computer service contract with Advanced Computer
6-   15     Connections, Inc.
2015
Res. 4-28-
7-   14     Entering into a client services agreement with Medicount Management, Inc.
2015
Res. 7-14-  Approving two addendums to the client services agreement with Medicount
17-  15     Management, Inc.
2015
Res.
2-   3-8-16 Contract with Richland County, Ohio Engineer
2016
Res. 5-10-  Entering into the emergency management service agreement with the Huron
8-   16     County Emergency Management Agency
2016
Res. 5-24-
11-  16     Entering into a contract with OPTO Traffic, LLC
2016
Res. 9-13-
16-  16     Entering into an agreement with PACE Payment Systems
2016
Res. 9-27-  Entering into a one- year computer service contract with Advanced Computer
21-  16     Connections, Inc.
2016
Res. 11-22-
23-  16     Entering into a master lease agreement with the Bancorp Bank
2016
Res. 12-13-
27-  16     Entering into a paramedic assistance agreement with the City of Willard
2016
Res. 12-13- Entering into a three year agreement for rescue and ambulance emergency
28-  16     services with the Board of Township Trustees of New Haven Township
2016
Res. 12-13- Entering into a three year agreement for fire and other emergency protection
29-  16     with the Board of Township Trustees of New Haven Township
2016
Res. 12-27-
30-  16     Entering into an agreement with Consumer Driven Administration, LLC
2016
Res.        Entering into the emergency management service agreement with the Huron
9-   5-9-17 County Emergency
2017
Res. 6-27-
15-  17     Authorizing cooperative agreement with the Ohio Water Development Authority
2017
Res. 11-14-
20-  17     Entering into an agreement with Consumer Driven Administrators, LLC
2017
Res. 11-28-
22-  17     Approving the progress payment agreement with Navitas Credit Corporation
2017
Res. 11-28- Authorizing a three year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of
24-  17     Plymouth Township, Richland County for rescue and ambulance emergency
2017        services
Res. 11-28- Authorizing a three year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of
25-  17     Plymouth Township, Richland County for fire and other emergency protection
2017
Res. 12-27-
27-  17     Entering into a managed services agreement with Advanced Computer Connections
2017
3-   3-13-  Entering into a five year loan agreement with CIVISTA bank
2018 18
4-   3-13-  Contract with Guenther Mechanical, Inc.
2018 18
Res. 4-10-  Contracting with Huron County Emergency Management Agency for emergency
6-   18     management services
2018
Res. 7-10-
8-   18     Contract with Optimax
2018
Res. 11-13-
16-  18     Four year contract with Perry Protech
2018
Res. 11-27-
17-  18     Agreement with Consumer Driven Administrators, LLC
2018
Res. 12-20-
19-  18     Mutual aid agreement with Portsmouth Emergency Ambulance Service, Inc.
2018
Res. 12-20-
20-  18     Cooperative purchasing agreement with the General Services Administration
18
4-   2-12-  Power purchase agreement with Eitri Foundry, LLC
2019 19
5-   2-12-  Municipal power interconnection agreement with Eitri Foundry, LLC
2019 19
Res. 5-28-
13-  19     Client services agreement with Medicount Management, Inc.
2019
Res. 6-10-  Emergency management service agreement with the Huron County Emergency
14-  19     Management Agency
2019
Res.
17-  7-9-19 First addendum with Eitri Foundry LLC for the power purchase agreement
2019
Res. 9-24-  Three year contract with the Board of Trustees of the C.B.&S. Joint Fire
20-  19     District
2019
Res. 9-24-
21-  19     Agreement with Consumer Driven Administrators, LLC
2019
Res. 9-27-
23-  19     Professional design services contract with GPD
2019
Res. 11-12-
27-  19     Contract with the Plymouth-Shiloh Local School District
2019
Res. 12-10- Three year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of New Haven
29-  19     Township
2019
Res. 12-10- Three year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of New Haven
30-  19     Township
2019
Res. 12-30-
31-  19     Twelve month master software agreement with Image Trend
2019
Res. 12-30- Cooperative agreement with Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of
32-  19     Forestry
2019
2-   3-10-  Contract with the Ohio Department of Transportation
2020 20
Res. 1-28-
2-   20     Paramedic assistance agreement with the City of Willard
2020
Res. 2-11-
3-   20     Contract with the Municipal Energy Services Agency
2020
Res. 3-31-
5-   20     Agreements between Madison Energy Holdings LLC and Plymouth Solar LLC
2020
Res. 4-14-  2020 road salt participation agreement with the Ohio Department of
6-   20     Transportation
2020
Res. 7-14-
15-  20     Agreement with Tim Lally Chevrolet, Inc.
2020
Res. 10-13-
24-  20     Agreement with Consumer Driven Administrators, LLC
2020
Res. 11-10- Emergency management service agreement with the Huron County Emergency
25-  20     Management Agency
2020
Res. 12-8-
29-  20     Three year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of Plymouth Township
2020
Res. 12-8-
30-  20     Three year agreement with the Board of Township Trustees of Plymouth Township
2020
Res. 12-29-
35-  20     Subgrant agreements with the Salvation Army and the Food Pantry
2020
Res. 1-12-
3-   21     Subgrant agreements with Romans 12:13 and the Food Pantry.
2021
Res. 4-13-  Emergency management service agreement with the Huron County Emergency
8-   21     Management Agency
2021
Res. 7-13-
10-  21     Repeal of Section 1 of Resolution 3-2021
2021
           
 
 
TABLE IV:  DEDICATIONS AND PLAT APPROVAL
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
12-  4-5-60 Accepting plat of Lake-View Estates
60
4-64 1-7-64 Accepting the Brooks Allotment
16-  11-6-  Accepting plats of Fenfor First Addition and Fenfor Second Addition
73   73
16-  6-18-  Conditionally accepting Brooks Allotment No. 2 as a subdivision
74   74
32-  12-8-  Accepting plat of Brooks Allotment No. 2
81   81
5-93 2-9-93 Dedicates Donnenwirth Avenue for street purposes
10-  3-11-  Dedicating for street purposes a  certain area which is an extension of
97   97     Donnenwirth Avenue
20-  7-8-97 Accepting the subdivision of Steve Jamerson, for Barnwood Subdivision in
97          the village
3-99 2-9-99 Dedicating for street purposes a certain area which is an extension of
            Donnenwirth Avenue containing 0.2857 acres, more or less
15-  8-14-  Naming and dedicating as a village landmark the Abraham Trucks Creek and
2018 18     Bridge
           
 
TABLE V:  EASEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
9-63 3-26-63  Authorizing the B. & O. RR Co. to lay a railroad track across High Street
24-  6-16-64  From Agnes H. McKown, an easement of restriction against the erection or
64            placement of a dwelling within 1,000 feet of the proposed sewerage lagoon
11-  3-2-65   Agreement with the Akron, Canton and Youngstown RR Co. for a right-of-way
65
15-  4-6-65   Agreement with the B. & O. RR Co for a right- of-way
65
1-75 2-4-75   Authorizing appropriation of a force main pump easement from Elsie Oney and the
              heirs of William Oney
4-75 4-15-75  Authorizing appropriation of force main and construction easements from Roy and
              Miriam Johnson
              Authorizes acquisition of permanent easements for the installation of sanitary
9-75 5-20-75  sewer lines, force mains and pumping stations in connection with the village
              sewer project
12-  7-1-75   From Roy and Miriam Johnson, a permanent easement for the construction,
75            maintenance and repair and/or replacement of a force main sewer line
13-  7-1-75   From Elsie Oney and William Oney, deceased, a permanent easement, for sewer
75            purposes
28-  12-16-75 Authorizing payment to Roy and Miriam Johnson for easements through their W.
75            Broadway property
10-  3-26-76  Authorizing payment to Elsie Oney and the heirs of William Oney for easements
76            through a part of Lots 223 and 224 and Outlot 16 of the village
8-96 4-9-96   Authorizing an easement on certain land belonging to the village
            Easement No. 1  Being part of a 3.1256 acre parcel in Great Lot 152
            Easement No. 2  Being part of a 1.5561 acre parcel in Great Lot 152
              Grant of easement in and to a certain strip of land commencing at an iron pin
- -  12-3-01  found on the south right-of-way line of Donnenwirth Avenue at the northeast
              corner of a 3.0018 acre parcel from William H. Fetzer
- -  11-12-02 Grant of storm sewer easement being a part of Lot 323 in Fenor Second Addition,
              commencing at the southeast corner of Lot 323, from William T. Hass
              Grant of storm sewer easement being a part of Lot 321 in Fenor Second Addition,
- -  11-12-02 commencing at the southwesterly corner of Lot 321, containing 0.0277 acre more
              or less, from Scott R. and Rebecca J. Fuller
- -  12-2-02  Grant of a storm sewer easement, being a part of Lot 322 in Fenor Second
              Addition, from Jacqueline A Breznicki
WL-           Grant of a temporary easement running parallel to and 26 feet north of a 14
T4   2-6-03   foot permanent waterline easement, from George H. Hiltbrunner and Barbara A.
              Hiltbrunner
              Grant of a waterline easement 14 feet in width running north of and parallel to
WL-4 2-6-03   the northerly right of way line of the Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway Co.  from
              George H. Hiltbrunner and Barbara Hiltbrunner
              Grant of a perpetual easement beginning at a point on the existing westerly
WL-5 4-23-03  right of way line of Plymouth Street, S.R. 61 at Station 714+20.00, 30.00 feet
              left of the existing centerline of S.R. 61 from Scott A. McDougal and Matthew
              L. Songer
              Grant of a waterline easement beginning at the intersection of the northerly
WL-1 5-9-03   right of way line of the Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway Co. and the southeast
              corner of the John Tarbey parcel, from John Tarbey
              Grant of a waterline easement 20 feet in width running north of and parallel to
WL-2 5-9-03   the northerly right of way line of the Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway Co. from
              Bonnie Brooks Cordle, Beverly J. Flaherty, and Melody A Brooks
              Grant of a waterline easement 15 feet in width running east of and parallel to
WL-6 5-9-03   an existing 25 foot easement for ingress-egress and a future street  from
              Melody A. Brooks
              Grant of a waterline easement 20 feet in width running north of and parallel to
WL-3 5-23-03  the northerly right of way line of the Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway Co. from
              James V. Rieman and Teresa M. Rieman
WL-  5-23-03  Grant of a temporary easement for purpose of constructing a waterline from
T3            James V. Rieman and Teresa M. Rieman
- -  5-23-03  Grant of storm sewer easement being a part of Lot 327 in Fenor Second Addition
              from John and Mark Adams
- -  5-23-03  Grant of a storm sewer easement being a part of Great Lot 153, Section One,
              from L.J. & O.E. Root
              Grant of a storm sewer easement being part of Great Lots 152 and 161 beginning
- -  1-13-04  at the corner common to Great Lots 152, 153, 160 and 161, containing 0.4008
              acre, more or less, from Randy A. Adams, LTD
Res.
14-  9-13-11  Revised easement agreement with the Plymouth-Shiloh Local School District
2011
              Thirty year easement agreement with Eitri Foundry, LLC to provide a suitable
6-   2-12-19  site for the Eitri Foundry, LLC’s construction of its solar energy system
2019          necessary to provide the supplemental electric energy supply for the parties’
              power purchase agreement
Res. 7-9-     First addendum with Eitri Foundry LLC for the easement agreement to provide for
16-  19    the assignment of two additional five year renewal terms
2019
Res.
14-  7-14-20  Amendment No. 1 to the easement agreement with Plymouth Solar LLC
2020
             
 
TABLE VI:  FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
19-  10-15- To Continental Cablevision of Ohio, Inc. for CATV service
68   68
22A- 11-2-  To Ohio Power Co., the right to  construct, maintain and operate in the
76   76     streets, etc., lines for the distribution of electricity
22-  11-21- To Ohio Power Co., for electric service
78   78
19-  11-22- Amends 19-68
82   82
11-  12-10- Amends Ord. 19-68, concerning Continental Cablevision Service
91   91
Res. 3-28-  Providing for a change in control of a cable television franchisee (AOL
1-   00     Time Warner Inc.)
2000
24-  10-28- Granting a cable television franchise to Time Warner Cable, Inc. for a
2003 03     term of 15 years
 
TABLE VII:  LEASE OF REAL PROPERTY
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
5-81 1-23-  Authorizes lease of 91.04 acres, belonging to the municipality, in New
     81     Haven Township Huron City for farming purposes
9-83 2-15-  Authorizes lease of 15 acres, belonging to the municipality to Tri-County
     83     Asphalt, Inc.
5-84 4-10-  Authorizes lease of village farmland
     84
14-  6-20-  Directs lease of 2 land parcels: southerly portion of 101 acres, New Haven
89   89     Township and 40 acres near the village water works
4-94 3-11-  Directs lease of 2 land parcels: southerly portion of 101 acres, New Haven
     94     Township and 40 acres near the village water works
9-   4-12-  Authorizes lease of certain public facilities not presently needed for a
2005 05     public purpose for use by a non-profit organization for administrative,
            child day-care and other related purposes
40-  12-12- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into the renewal of a lease
05   05     agreement for the lease of certain public facilities not presently needed
            for a public purpose
4-06 1-24-  Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into a lease agreement for the
     06     lease of a certain parcel of land
22-         Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into an addendum of a lease
06   8-8-06 agreement, previously entered, for the lease of certain public facilities
            not presently needed for a public purpose
34-  11-14- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into the renewal of a lease
2006 06     agreements for the lease of certain public facilities not presently needed
            for a public purpose
35-  11-28- Authorizing and directing the Mayor to enter into a lease agreement for the
06   06     lease of certain public facilities not presently needed for a public
            purpose
Res. 3-27-
8-   07     Authorizing a one-year lease with Four Seasons Child Care, Inc.
2007
Res. 10-9-  Entering into a one year lease with Plymouth- Shiloh Ecumenical Council fo
28-  07     its use of the village’s utility garage at 66 Walnut Street
0207
Res. 11-13- Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a one year lease for the term of
30-  07     February 1, 2008 through January 31, 2009 with the Texas Migrant Council
2007
Res.        Authorizing the Mayor to enter into a five-year lease for the term of
20-  7-8-08 February 1, 2009 through January 31, 2014 with the Texas Migrant Council
2008        for rooms and parking at the Village Hall
Res. 3-10-  Authorizing the Mayor and Fiscal Officer to enter into a one-year lease
5-   09     with Four Seasons Child Care, Inc., for the term of June 15, 2009 to June
2009        14, 2010
Res. 6-22-  Entering into a three-month lease extension with Four Seasons Child Care,
14-  10     Inc., for the term of June 15, 2010 to September 30, 2010
2010
Res. 6-22-  Entering into a one-year lease with Four Seasons Child Care, Inc., for the
15-  10     term of October 1, 2010 to September 30, 2011
2010
Res. 3-13-  Entering into a farm lease with Robert Reber, DBA Reber Farms, to lease 32
7-   12     +/- acres
2012
Res. 5-22-  Entering into a second lease extension with Four Seasons Child Care, Inc.
15-  12     to September 30, 2012
2012
2-   2-12-  Approving the lease of 53+ acres of village-owned farmland for agricultural
2013 13     purposes for a five-year term
Res. 10-22- Authorizing an amendment to the five-year farming lease with Cooke Grain
26-  13     Farms because of the reduction of acreage
2013
Res. 8-11-  Approving the cancellation of the Mary Fate Park lease with the Plymouth-
19-  15     Shiloh Local School District
2015
Res. 12-13- Entering into a one year lease for the term of 1-1-17 – 12-31-17 with the
24-  16     Texas Migrant Council
2016
2-   1-23-  Leasing 34.957 acres, having PP# 23-024A-01-001-0000, 53- 0980-A2-059-0000
2018 18     and 53-0970-C2-060-0000 exclusively for farming for a term of five years
5-   3-13-  Entering into a five year farm lease with Charlie Cook for 34.957 acres
2018 18
           
 
TABLE VIII:  STREET GRADE LEVELS AND CHANGE OF STREET NAME
 
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
(1941 Code § 129)–         Establishing the grade of part of Portner Street
16-04             5-25-04     Establishing the names of certain rights-of-way
6-2005            2-22-05     Amends Ord. 16-04
                             
 
TABLE IX:  VACATING OF STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     An alley extending southerly from the south line of
5-63     2-19-63     Lofland Street between Lot 159 on the west and Lots 160
                     through 163 on the east tot a point 120 feet north from
                     the north line of Walnut Street
11-71    7-20-71     The alley between Park Avenue and Walnut Street
                     An alley lying between Lots 108 and 109, extending in a
10-72    5-16-72     northerly-southerly direction rom Broadway Street to an
                     unnamed alley lying in an easterly-westerly direction on
                     the north side of Lots 108 and 109
32-81    12-8-81     A cul-de-sac in Brooks Allotment No. 2
                     Vacates a right-of-way between Lot 211 and property of
1-88     1-12-88     Plymouth Locomotive International, Inc. extending from
                     Nicholas Avenue
5-88     2-9-88      Vacates six alleys running adjacent or between Lots 219-
                     226, variously
8-86     11-11-86    Vacates part of a 20-foot wide alley shown on Plat Volume
                     5, page 14
32-93    12-14-93    Vacates a right-of-way on Raymond Street
20-99    11-9-99     Vacates an alley on the east right-of-way line of Railroad
                     Street at the northwest corner of Lot 169
24-01    10-9-01     Vacating certain rights-of-way
                     1. Being a 20-foot wide east-west alley in the village
                   between Lots 41, 42, 43, 44, 46, 47 and 48 and extending
                     from the westerly lines of Lots 42 and 43 to the easterly
                     lines of Lots 46 and 47
                     2. Being a 20-foot wide north-south alley in the village
                   between Lots 41, 44, 45, 46 and 48 and extending from the
                     northerly lines of lots 44 and 45 to the southerly lines
                     of Lots 41 and 48
                     Vacating a 12-foot wide north-south alley between lots
24-02    7-9-02      159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165 and 166 and extending
                     from the northerly lines of Lots 159 and 160 to the
                     southerly lines of Lots 165 and 166
                     Vacating a 20-foot wide, east-west alley between Lots 55
                     and 56 extending from the northwest side of Lot 56 a
19-04    6-22-04     distance of 117 feet to the east; and vacating a 15-foot
                     wide, north- south alley extending 125.4 feet south, then
                     turning 60.6 feet west, then turning south 36.96 feet,
                     between Lot Nos. 119 and 51
                     Vacating a 20-foot wide east-west alley in Richland
                     County, between Lots 55 and 56 extending from the
                     northwest side of Lot 56 a distance of 117 feet to the
                     east, said alley to be divided as set forth in exhibit A;
30-04    10-26-04    and vacating a 15-foot wide, north-south alley in Huron
                     County, extending 125.4 feet south, then turning 60.6 feet
                     west, then turning south 36.96 feet, between Lot Nos. 119
                     and 51, said alley to be divided equally between the
                     adjoining properties
                     Vacating a 20-foot wide east-west alley between Lots 38,
32-04    11-9-04     29, 37 and 40, said alley to be divided equally among the
                     adjoining properties
                     Vacating a 12-foot wide north-south alley between Lots
                     159, 160, 161, 162, 163, 164, 165 and 166 and extending
39-04    11-23-04    from the northerly lines of Lots 159 and 160 to the
                     southerly lines of Lots 165 and 166, said alley to be
                     divided equally among the adjoining properties
                     Vacating a 15-foot wide north-south alley between Lots
                     125, 126, 127, 128, 129, 130, 131 and the Ashland Railroad
40-04    11-23-04    property and extending from the northerly line of Lot 131
                     to the southerly line of Lot 125, said alley to be divided
                     equally among the adjoining properties
16-2018  8-14-18     Vacate the unnamed alley between village Lots 288 and 33
                     Vacate the connecting alleys of (1) commencing north at
                     East High Street and running between Lots 41 and 48 and
18-2018  10-23-18    (2) commencing at Paddock Way and running easterly to
                     Mulberry Street between Lots 42, 41, 48 and 47 to its
                     south and Lots 43, 44, and 46 to its north
                    
 
TABLE X:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
12-  5-9-89 4.9533 acres in SW part of Great Lot 137, Section 1, New Haven Township zoned
89          MF Multiple Family Residential District
15-  12-17- Two land parcels (1.78 and .51 acres) in Lot 152, Section 1, New Haven
91   91     Township from R-2 Residential to B-1 General Business District
16-  12-17- 11.69 acres in Outlots 32-34 from R-2 Residential and MH Mobile Home Park to
91   91     MF Multiple Family Residential District
13-  8-11-  Land parcel in Light's Addition from R-2 Residential to B-1 General Business
92   92     District
24-  9-14-  Outlot 27 (7.225 acres) from R-1 Residential to B-1 General Business District
93   93
8-95 4-11-  Rezoning certain area being part of Lot No. 99 from R-2 Residential to B-
     95     1 General Business District
11-  4-11-  Part of Great Lots 127, 128, 129, 136 and 137, Section 1 of New Haven
95   95     Township zoned as I-2 Heavy Industrial District
18-  7-11-  Part of Outlot 133, and parts of Great Lot 152, Section 1, New Haven
95   95     Township, rezoned from R-2 Residential to B-1 General Business District
19-  8-13-  Part of Great Lot 152 and the southwesterly part of Great Lot 137, Section 1,
96   96     containing 7.6024 acres, rezoned from MF Multiple Family Residential to R-
            1 Residential District
23-  6-25-  Zoning 133.869 acres of land as R-1
2002 02
26-  9-10-  Zoning 13.219 acres of Parcel A, a 0.688 acre parcel contiguous to Parcel A
2002 02     and Lot Numbers 23 and 30 as R-2 Residential District
1-   1-13-  Rezoning a certain area beginning at the northwest corner of Riggs Avenue and
2004 04     Pine Street, from R-2 Residential to I-2 Heavy Industrial District
2-   1-13-  Rezoning certain areas of the Village from I-2 Heavy Industrial District to
2004 04     R-2 Residential District:
            Area 1Commencing at a point along the southern line of Nicholas Avenue
            Area 2Commencing at a pont in the southwest corner of Lot No. 190
20-  7-13-  Adopting the revised Zoning Map
2004 04
33-  11-9-  Rezoning Lot No. 235 in the Village from B-1 General Business District to R-
04   04     2 Residential District
34-  11-9-  Rezoning Lot Nos. 2435, 246, 247, 248 and 249 in the Village from R-
04   04     2 Residential District to B-1 General Business District
27-  9-16-  Rezoning a certain area of the village from a B-1 General Business District
05   05     to an R-2 Residential District
            Rezoning three parcels of 4.06 acres owned by the Plymouth Board of
12-  3-27-  Education; 0.609 acres  owned by John L.Cashman and Virginia L. Cashman; and
2007 07     0.887 acres owned by the First National Bank of Shelby from Multi-Family MF-
            1 to Business B-1
13-  4-10-  Rezoning the 1.7336 acre parcel of part of 133 and part of Great Lot 152
07   07     owned by Jeffrey A. Heinold and Stacy M. Heinold from Residential R-2 to
            Business B-1
            Rezoning certain parcels from Industrial I-2 to Residential R-l owned by
6-   2-12-  David P. Egner, Barbara J. Egner, Janice E. Reynolds, Michael J. Christoff,
2008 08     Samuel Hale, Michelle E. Gerhard Stein, Trustee, and Muller-Hauss- Van Aken
            Farms.
7-   2-12-  Rezoning certain parcels from Mobile Home Park District MH-1 to Multiple
2008 08     Family Residential District MF-1 owned by Muller- Hauss-Van Aken Farms, Gary
            L. Collins, Doris L. Enderby, Willard Rental Properties and Schaef Dalton
8-   2-12-  Zoning into separate districts the 31.5683 acres annexed from Plymouth
2008 08     Township on August 14, 2007
9-   2-12-  Rezoning an area exceeding ten parcels south of Brazilian Street from
2008 08     Business B-1 to Residential R-1
10-  2-12-  Rezoning of certain parcels from Residential R-2 to Business B-1 owned by
2008 08     Marjory Donnenwirth, and rezoning Multiple Family Residential District MF-
            1 to Business B-2 owned by Russell G. Hall
29-  7-22-  Rezoning village Lots 96 and 97 from Residential R-2 to Business B-1
2008 08
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
History References to Ohio Revised Code
References to 1994 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORY REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                          Code Section
1.01                                  10.01
1.02                                  10.02
1.05                                  10.02
1.14                                  10.03
1.15                                  10.03
1.23                                  10.05
1.42                                  10.03
1.43                                  10.03
1.44                                  10.02
1.45                                  10.03
1.46                                  10.03
1.47                                  10.18
1.48                                  10.18
1.49                                  10.18
1.50                                  10.07
1.51                                  10.06
1.52                                  10.06
1.54                                  10.04
1.55                                  10.05
1.56                                  10.05
1.57                                  10.04
1.58                                  10.04
1.59                                  10.02
128.01(A)                             136.20
128.32(E) - (G)                       136.20
128.99(A), (B)                        136.20
701.01                                10.02
715.67                                130.99
901.51                                131.21
901.99(A)                             131.21
925.62                                90.34
925.99(B)                             90.34
951.02                                90.01
951.10                                90.01
951.11                                90.02
951.12                                90.03
951.13                                90.04
951.99                                90.01
955.011(B)                            90.32
955.10                                90.27
955.21                                90.29
955.22                                90.01
955.222                               90.01
955.24                                90.30
955.25                                90.31
955.26                                90.05
955.28(A)                             90.08
955.39                                90.05
955.43                                90.32
955.50                                90.33
955.54                                90.37
                                      90.27,
955.99(B)                             90.30,
                                      90.31
955.99(C)                             90.05,
                                      90.33
955.99(D)                             90.32
955.99(E)                             90.01,
                                      90.29
955.99(F)                             90.01
955.99(G)                             90.01
955.99(H)                             90.01
955.99(J)                             90.01
955.99(L)                             90.01
955.99(M)                             90.01
955.99(N)                             90.01
955.99(O)                             90.37
955.99(P)                             90.01
955.99(Q)                             90.01
959.01                                90.20
959.02                                90.21
959.03                                90.22
959.04                                90.21,
                                      90.22
959.13                                90.23
959.131                               90.23
959.15                                90.24
959.17                                90.25
959.21                                90.39
959.99(B)                             90.21
                                      90.22,
959.99(C)                             90.24,
                                      90.25
959.99(D)                             90.23,
                                      90.39
959.99(E)                             90.23
959.99(E)(3)                          90.20
959.99(E)(7)                          90.39
959.99(I)                             90.24
1349.17                               131.31
1349.99                               131.31
1533.161                              90.35
1533.171(A)                           131.24,
                                      135.05
1533.99(B)                            90.35
1533.99(C)                            131.24,
                                      135.05
2901.01                               130.02
2901.02                               130.03
2901.03                               130.04
2901.04                               130.05
2901.05                               130.13
2901.06                               130.14
2901.08                               130.15
2901.09                               130.20
2901.11                               130.16
2901.13                               130.06
2901.21                               130.07
2901.22                               130.08
2901.23                               130.09
2901.24                               130.10
2903.05                               135.02
2903.06                               135.03
2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3),(D)(3), (E)-(G) 135.03
2903.09                               135.01
2903.10                               135.19
2903.13                               135.04
2903.14                               135.04
2903.16                               135.19
2903.21                               135.06
2903.211                              135.06
2903.22                               135.06
2903.31                               135.17
2903.33                               135.20
2903.34                               135.20
2903.341                              135.20
2903.35                               135.20
2903.36                               135.20
2905.03                               135.07
2905.12                               135.09
2907.01                               133.01
2907.04                               133.02
2907.06                               133.03
2907.08                               133.04
2907.09                               133.05
2907.10                               133.18
2907.23                               133.06
2907.231                              133.06
2907.24                               133.07
2907.241                              133.07
2907.25                               133.08
2907.26                               133.12
2907.31                               133.09
2907.311                              133.10
2907.33                               133.11
2907.35                               133.09
2907.36                               133.13
2907.37                               133.14
2907.38                               133.15
2907.39                               133.16
2907.40                               133.17
2909.01                               131.01
2909.03                               131.02
2909.06                               131.03
2909.07                               131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                      131.05
2909.09                               131.03
2909.10                               131.35
2909.101                              131.35
2909.11(B) - (D)                      131.02
2909.31                               136.21
2911.21                               131.06
2911.211                              131.06
2911.23                               131.06
2911.32                               131.07
2913.01                               131.01
2913.02                               131.08
2913.03                               131.09
2913.04                               131.10
2913.07                               131.34
2913.11                               131.11
2913.21                               131.12
2913.31(B), (C)(2)                    131.26
2913.32                               131.27
2913.33                               131.13
2913.34                               131.29
2913.40                               131.23
2913.401                              131.23
2913.41                               131.14
2913.42                               131.15
2913.43                               131.16
2913.44                               131.28
2913.441                              132.11
2913.45                               131.17
2913.47                               131.23
2913.48                               131.23
2913.51                               131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)                      131.19
2913.71                               131.20
2913.72                               131.25
2913.73                               131.25
2915.01                               134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)                 134.02
2915.03                               134.03
2915.04                               134.04
2915.05                               134.05
2915.06                               134.14
2915.061                              134.14
2915.09                               134.06
2915.091                              134.10
2915.092                              134.11
2915.093                              134.12
2915.094                              134.13
2915.10                               134.07
2915.11                               134.08
2915.12                               134.09
2915.13                               134.12
2915.14                               134.15
2917.01                               132.10
2917.03                               132.01
2917.031                              132.01
2917.04                               132.02
2917.05                               132.03
2917.11                               132.04
2917.12                               132.05
2917.13                               132.06
2917.21                               132.07
2917.211                              133.20
2917.31                               132.08
2917.32                               132.09
2917.40                               132.13
2917.41                               132.14
2919.01                               135.10
2919.11                               135.11
2919.12                               135.11
2919.121                              135.11
2919.122                              135.11
2919.14                               135.12
2919.18                               135.11
2919.21                               135.13
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)                 135.14
2919.23                               135.15
2919.231                              135.15
2919.24                               135.18
2919.25                               135.16
2919.27                               135.23
2921.01                               136.01
2921.04                               136.17
2921.13                               136.02
2921.14                               136.14
2921.15                               136.19
2921.21                               136.03
2921.22                               136.04
2921.23                               136.05
2921.24                               136.16
2921.25                               136.1
2921.29                               136.216
2921.31                               136.06
2921.32                               136.07
2921.321                              136.15
2921.33                               136.08
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)           70.02
2921.36                               136.13
2921.37                               136.13
2921.42                               136.09
2921.43                               136.10
2921.44                               136.11
2921.45                               136.12
2921.51                               132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)                      136.18
2923.02                               130.11
2923.03                               130.12
2923.11                               137.01
2923.12                               137.02
2923.1211(B), (C)                     137.13
2923.1212                             137.13
2923.122(C) - (G)                     137.11
2923.126                              137.13
2923.131                              137.12
2923.15                               137.03
2923.16                               137.04
2923.162                              137.09
2923.18                               137.10
2923.19                               137.06
2923.20                               137.07
2923.201                              137.14
2923.211                              137.08
2923.24                               137.05
2925.01                               138.01
2925.03(A) - (C), (I)                 138.02
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)          138.06
2925.11                               138.03
2925.12                               138.04
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)                 138.05
2925.14                               138.13
2925.141                              138.13
2925.31                               138.07
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G)       138.10
2925.33                               138.10
2925.34                               138.20
2925.36(A) - (C)                      138.08
2925.37(A), (G)                       138.12
2925.50                               138.09
2925.51                               138.11
2925.511                              138.11
2925.55                               138.18
2925.56                               138.18
2925.57                               138.18
2925.58                               138.18
2927.01                               135.28
2927.02                               135.25
2927.021                              135.25
2927.022                              135.25
2927.023                              135.25
2927.024                              135.25
2927.03                               135.21
2927.11                               131.36
2927.12                               135.22
2927.15                               135.29
2927.17                               133.19
2927.27                               130.21
2929.21                               130.99
2929.22                               130.18
2929.23                               133.99
2929.24                               130.99
2929.25                               130.99
2929.26                               130.99
2929.27                               130.99
2929.28                               130.99
2929.31                               130.99
2929.41                               130.19
2935.041                              131.22
2935.28                               70.08
2935.36(E)                            130.02
2981.07                               131.30
2981.11                               130.17
2981.12                               130.17
2981.13(A)                            130.17
3701.81                               135.27
3701.82                               93.08
3701.99(B)                            93.08
3701.99(C)                            135.27
3715.05                               138.18
3715.06                               138.18
3716.11                               135.24
3716.99(C)                            135.24
3719.08(A), (E)                       138.14
3719.172(A), (B)                      138.15
3719.19                               138.09
3719.99(C)                            138.14
3719.99(E)                            138.15
3737.34                               93.03
3737.51(A)                            93.04
3737.51(B) to (H)                     93.99
3737.61                               93.05
3737.62                               93.06
3737.63                               93.07
3737.64                               93.09
3737.65(A), (B)                       93.10
3737.99(B)                            93.04,
                                      93.99
3737.99(C)                            93.05,
                                      93.99
3737.99(D)                            93.06,
                                      93.99
                                      93.07,
3737.99(E)                            93.10,
                                      93.99
3743.01                               93.40
3743.25                               93.49
3743.54                               93.42
3743.60(E) - (J)                      93.43
3743.61(E) - (J)                      93.43
3743.63                               93.44
3743.64(C) - (G)                      93.45
3743.65(A) - (E)                      93.41
3743.66                               93.46
3743.68                               93.48
3743.80                               93.47
3743.99(C), (D)                       93.99
3767.13                               95.05
3767.201                              70.09(A)
3767.29                               95.01
3767.32                               95.04
3767.99(B)                            95.01
3767.99(C)                            95.04,
                                      95.05
3767.99(D)                            70.09(B)
3773.06                               137.09
3773.99(A)                            137.09
3781.55                               133.05
3791.031                              135.26
4301.01                               94.01
4301.20                               94.02
4301.21                               94.03
4301.22                               94.04
4301.244                              94.01
4301.58                               94.05
4301.60                               94.06
4301.61                               94.27
4301.611                              94.28
4301.62                               94.07
4301.63                               94.08
4301.631                              94.09
4301.633                              94.10
4301.634                              94.11
4301.637                              94.13
4301.638                              94.04,
                                      94.12
4301.639(A), (C)                      94.14
4301.64                               94.15
4301.65                               94.29
4301.66                               94.17
4301.67                               94.18
4301.68                               94.19
4301.69                               94.12
4301.70                               94.99
4301.74                               94.26
                                      94.07,
4301.99(A)                            94.29,
                                      94.99
                                      94.04,
4301.99(B)                            94.09,
                                      94.15,
                                      94.18
                                      94.03,
                                      94.05,
                                      94.06,
4301.99(C)                            94.10,
                                      94.12,
                                      94.17,
                                      94.19,
                                      94.26
4301.99(D)                            94.04
4301.99(E)                            94.08,
                                      94.09
4301.99(F)                            94.11
4301.99(H)                            94.04
4301.99(I)                            94.12
4301.99(J)                            94.29
4303.202(D)(2)                        94.16
4303.208(C)                           94.16
4303.25                               94.05
4303.40                               94.25
4303.99(D)                            94.16
4399.09                               94.20
4399.10                               94.21
4399.14                               94.22
4399.15                               94.23
4399.16                               94.24
4399.99(A)                            94.24
4399.99(B)                            94.20
4399.99(C)                            94.21
4399.99(D)                            94.22
4399.99(E)                            94.23
4501.01(LL)                           70.01
4501.01(TT)                           72.061(G)
4503.05                               71.02
4503.11(A), (D)                       71.01(B), (G)(2)
4503.111                              71.01(C), (G)(3)
4503.12(A), (D)                       71.01(D), (G)(4)
4503.21                               71.01(A), (G)(1)
4503.236                              71.03
4505.18                               71.04
4506.01                               71.45
4506.011                              71.46
4506.03                               71.48(A) - (C), (G)
4506.04                               71.47(A), (B), (D)(1), (D)(2)
4506.05                               71.48(D) - (G)
4506.10(A), (E)                       71.49
4506.12(I), (J)                       71.47(C), (D)(3)
4506.15                               71.50(A), (D)
4506.17(H), (N)                       71.50(B), (D)
4506.19                               71.51
4506.20                               71.52
4506.23                               71.50(C)
4506.99                               71.99
4507.02(A)                            71.22(A)
4507.03                               71.22(B)
4507.04                               71.22(C)
4507.05(F), (I)                       71.21(B), (K)
4507.071(B) - (J)                     71.21(C) - (K)
4507.213                              71.22(D)
4507.30                               71.20
4507.31                               71.21(A), (K)
4507.321                              71.23
4507.35                               71.26
4507.36                               71.27
4507.99                               71.99
4509.102                              136.02
4509.74                               73.33
4510.037(J)                           71.28(C)
                                      71.28(D),
4510.04                               71.30(H),
                                      71.31(E),
                                      71.32(D)
4510.05                               71.25(A)
4510.11                               71.28(A)
4510.111                              71.28(B)
4510.12                               71.29
4510.14                               71.30(A) - (G)
4510.15                               71.25(B), (C)
4510.16                               71.31(A) - (D)
4510.21                               71.32(A) - (C)
4510.44                               73.08
4511.01                               70.01
4511.03                               70.03
4511.031                              70.38
4511.04                               70.04(A) - (D)
4511.041                              70.04(E)
4511.042                              70.04(F)
4511.05                               70.05
4511.051                              70.06
4511.08                               70.07
4511.12                               70.30
4511.121                              70.30(B) - (E), (G)(2)
4511.13                               70.31
4511.131                              70.32
4511.132                              70.33
4511.14                               70.34
4511.16                               70.35
4511.17                               70.36
4511.18                               70.37
4511.181                              73.01(N)
4511.19(A) - (M)                      73.01(A) - (M)
4511.191(A), (D)                      73.02(A), (H)
4511.192                              73.02(B) - (G)
4511.194                              73.03
4511.20                               73.05
4511.201                              73.06
4511.202                              73.07
4511.203                              71.24
4511.204                              72.131
4511.205                              72.132
4511.21(A) - (G), (O), (P)            73.10(A) - (G), (I), (K)(1)
4511.211                              73.10(J), (K)(2)
4511.213                              72.120(B) - (D)
4511.214                              73.16(A) - (D)
4511.215                              73.16(E), (F)
4511.216                              73.16(G)
4511.22                               73.11
4511.23                               73.13
4511.24                               73.12
4511.25                               72.001
4511.251                              73.09
4511.26                               72.003
4511.27                               72.004
4511.28                               72.005
4511.29                               72.006
4511.30                               72.007
4511.31                               72.008
4511.32                               72.009
4511.33                               72.010
4511.34                               72.011
4511.35                               72.012
4511.36                               72.013
4511.37                               72.014
4511.38                               72.015
4511.39                               72.016
4511.40                               72.017
4511.41                               72.030
4511.42                               72.031
4511.43                               72.032
4511.431                              72.033(A), (F), (G)
4511.432                              72.033(B) - (F)
4511.44                               72.034
4511.441                              72.035
4511.45                               72.036(A) - (D)
4511.451                              72.037
4511.452                              72.038
4511.454                              72.036(E)
4511.46                               72.039
4511.47                               72.040
4511.48                               72.041
4511.481                              72.060
4511.49                               72.055
4511.491                              72.059
4511.50                               72.056
4511.51                               72.057
4511.511                              72.058
4511.512                              72.061(A) - (F)
4511.513                              72.062
4511.514                              72.063
4511.52                               75.01
4511.521                              75.02
4511.522                              75.03
4511.53                               75.04
4511.54                               75.05
4511.55                               75.06
4511.56                               75.07
4511.60                               72.002
4511.61                               72.075
4511.62                               72.076
4511.63                               72.077
4511.64                               72.078
4511.65                               70.10
4511.66                               76.01
4511.661                              76.02
4511.67                               76.03
4511.68                               76.04
4511.681                              76.06
4511.69                               76.05
4511.70                               72.115
4511.701                              72.116
4511.71                               72.117(A), (C)(1)
4511.711                              72.118(A), (C)
4511.712                              72.119
4511.713                              72.118(B), (C)
4511.714                              72.117(B), (C)(2), (D)
4511.72                               72.120(A), (C)
4511.73                               72.121
4511.74                               72.122(A), (B), (F)(1), (F)(2)
4511.75                               72.090
4511.751                              72.091
4511.76(C), (F), (G)                  72.092
4511.761                              72.093
4511.762                              72.094
4511.763                              72.095
4511.764                              72.096
4511.77                               72.097
4511.771                              72.098
4511.772                              72.099
4511.79                               73.04
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)            72.123
4511.82                               72.122(C) - (E), (F)(3)
4511.84                               72.126
4511.85                               72.127
4511.99                               70.99(A)
4511.991                              70.99(B)
4513.02(A), (H)                       74.01
4513.021                              74.02
4513.03                               74.03
4513.04                               74.04
4513.05                               74.05
4513.06                               74.06
4513.07                               74.07
4513.071                              74.08
4513.08                               74.09
4513.09                               74.10
4513.10                               74.11(A)
4513.11                               74.12(A) - (I), (K)
4513.111                              74.12(J), (K)
4513.12                               74.13
4513.13                               74.14
4513.14                               74.15
4513.15                               74.16
4513.16                               74.17
4513.17                               74.18(A) - (E), (G)
4513.171                              74.18(F), (G)
4513.18                               74.19
4513.181                              74.20
4513.182                              74.21(A), (B)
4513.19                               74.22
4513.20                               74.23(A)
4513.201                              74.24(A), (B)
4513.202                              74.25(A) - (C)
4513.21                               74.26
4513.22                               74.27
4513.23                               74.28
4513.24                               74.29
4513.241(C) - (J)                     74.31(B)
4513.241(K)                           74.31(C)(2) - (C)(4)
4513.25                               74.30(A)
4513.26                               74.31(A)
4513.261                              74.32
4513.262                              74.33
4513.263                              72.124
4513.27                               74.34(A) - (C)
4513.28                               74.35
4513.29                               74.36(A)
4513.30                               74.51(A)
4513.31                               74.52(A), (B)
4513.32                               74.53(A)
4513.33                               74.54
4513.34                               74.50(A) - (I)
4513.36                               73.15(A), (B)
4513.361                              73.14
4513.50                               74.38(A)
4513.51(A), (B), (D)                  74.38(B), (C)
4513.60                               99.01
4513.601                              99.01
4513.61                               99.02
4513.62                               99.03
4513.63                               99.04
4513.64                               99.05
4513.65                               99.06
4513.66                               70.12(A) - (C)
4513.68                               70.12(D) - (G)
                                      74.11(B),
                                      74.21(C),
                                      74.23(B),
                                      74.24(C),
                                      74.25(D),
                                      74.30(B),
4513.99                               74.31(C)(1),
                                      74.34(D),
                                      74.36(B),
                                      74.50(J),
                                      74.51(B),
                                      74.52(C),
                                      74.53(B)
4519.01                               75.25
4519.02                               75.34
4519.20                               75.26(A), (B), (D)(1)
4519.22                               75.26(C), (D)(2)
4519.40                               75.27
4519.401                              73.16(H)
4519.41                               75.28
4519.44                               75.29
4519.45                               75.30
4519.46                               75.31
4519.47                               75.32
4519.48                               75.33
4519.66                               75.35
4549.02                               73.30
4549.021                              73.31
4549.03                               73.32
4549.05                               70.11
4549.08                               71.06
4549.081(B), (C)                      70.30(F), (G)(3)
4549.10                               71.07
4549.11                               71.01(E), (G)(5)
4549.12                               71.01(F), (G)(6)
4549.18                               71.05
4549.20                               74.39
4731.481                              138.17
4731.99(F)                            138.17
4734.161                              138.17
4734.99(B)                            138.17
4933.18                               131.32
4933.19                               131.32
5577.02                               74.55(A)
5577.042                              74.61(A) - (D)
5577.043                              74.61(E) - (H)
5577.044                              74.61(I) - (K)
5577.045                              74.61(L)
5577.05                               74.57(A) - (H)
5577.06                               74.57(I)
5577.10                               74.58(A), (B)
5577.11                               74.59(A)
5577.12                               74.60
5577.15                               74.53(C)
5577.99(A)                            74.55(B)
5577.99(C)                            74.57(J)
5577.99(D)                            74.58(C)
5577.99(E)                            74.59(B)
5589.08                               72.128(A), (B)
5589.081                              74.37(A) - (C)
5589.12                               131.10
                                      72.128(C),
5589.99(B)                            74.37(D),
                                      131.10
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO 1994 CODE
1994 Code Section Code Section
1994 Code Section Code Section
121.01            30.01
131.01            31.01
133.01            31.02
133.02            31.02
133.03            31.02
133.04            31.02
133.05            31.02
133.06            31.02
133.07            31.02
133.08            31.02
133.10            31.02
133.11            31.02
135.02            31.03
135.03            31.03
137.02            31.04
137.03            31.04
137.04            31.04
143.01            31.06
143.02            31.06
143.03            31.06
143.04            31.06
144.01            154.183
145.01            32.001
145.02            32.002
145.03            32.002
145.04            32.003
145.06            32.002
145.07            32.005
145.08            32.006
147.01            32.021
147.02            32.021
147.04            32.023
147.05            32.024
147.06            32.025
147.07            32.025
149.01            32.130
151.01            32.070
151.02            32.071
153.01            32.100
153.03            32.102
155.01            32.115
158.01            32.055
158.02            32.056
158.03            32.057
159.01            34.02
159.02            34.03
159.03            34.04
159.04            34.04
159.06            34.05
159.07            34.06
159.08            34.07
159.09            34.08
159.10            34.09
159.11            34.10
159.12            34.11
159.13            34.12
171.01            33.01
171.02            33.02
171.03            33.03
303.08            99.02
303.081           99.01
303.082           99.01
303.083           99.01
303.09            99.05
303.10            99.06
305.01            70.25
305.02            70.26
305.03            70.27
305.04            70.29
305.05            70.27
305.06            70.27
305.07            70.28
351.14            76.12
351.15            76.12
351.16            76.13
351.17            76.15
351.18            76.16
351.19            76.18
351.20            76.19
501.01            130.02
501.02            130.03
501.03            130.04
501.04            130.05
501.05            130.16
501.06            130.06
501.07            130.07
501.08            130.08
501.09            130.11
501.10            130.12
501.11            130.09
501.12            130.10
501.99            130.99
505.08            90.09
505.10            90.10
505.11            90.36
505.14            90.28
509.01            132.01
509.02            132.02
509.03            132.04
509.04            132.05
509.05            132.06
509.06            132.08
509.07            132.09
509.08            31.01
509.09            132.16
513.01            138.01
513.02            138.02
513.03            138.03
513.04            138.04
513.05            138.05
513.07            138.07
513.08            138.08
513.09            138.14
513.10            138.15
513.11            138.10
513.12            138.13
513.13            138.12
515.01            92.01
515.02            92.02
515.03            92.03
515.05            92.04
515.05            92.05
515.06            92.06
517.01            134.01
517.02            134.02
517.03            134.03
517.04            134.04
517.05            134.05
517.06            134.06
517.07            134.07
517.08            134.08
517.09            134.09
521.01            95.01
521.03            97.20
521.04            97.02
521.05            95.02
521.06            97.03
521.07            95.03
521.08            95.04
521.09            95.05
521.10            95.05
525.01            136.01
525.02            136.02
525.03            132.12
525.04            136.03
525.05            136.04
525.06            136.05
525.07            136.06
525.08            136.07
525.09            136.08
525.10            136.09
525.11            136.10
525.12            136.11
525.13            136.12
525.14            132.11
529.01            94.01
529.02            94.12
529.021           94.08,
                  94.10
529.03            94.04
529.04            94.15
529.05            94.05
529.06            94.13
529.07            94.07
529.08            94.16
533.01            133.01
533.02            133.09
533.03            133.02
533.04            133.03
533.06            133.04
533.07            133.05
533.08            133.06
533.09            133.07
533.10            133.08
533.11            133.09
533.13            133.11
533.15            133.10
537.01            135.02
537.02            135.03
537.03            135.04
537.04            135.04
537.05            135.06
537.051           135.06
537.06            135.06
537.07            135.14
537.08            135.07
537.09            135.09
537.10            132.07
537.13            135.24
537.14            135.16
537.15            135.23
537.16            135.25
537.18            135.18
539.021           94.11
541.01            131.02
541.02            131.02
541.03            131.03
541.04            131.04
541.05            131.06
541.051           131.06
541.06            131.21
541.08            135.22
541.09            131.33
545.01            131.01
545.02            131.19
545.03            131.20
545.04            131.22
545.05            131.08
545.06            131.09
545.07            131.23
545.08            131.10
545.09            131.11
545.10            131.12
545.11            131.13
545.12            131.07
545.13            131.14
545.14            131.15
545.15            131.16
545.16            131.28
545.17            131.17
545.18            131.18
545.19            131.32
545.20            131.26
549.01            137.01
549.02            137.02
549.03            137.03
549.04            137.04
549.05            137.06
549.06            137.07
555.01            95.20
555.02            95.21
555.03            95.22
555.04            95.23
555.99            95.24
745.01            152.20
745.02            152.21
745.03            152.22
745.04            152.23
745.05            152.24
745.06            152.25
745.07            152.26
745.08            152.27
745.09            152.28
745.10            152.34
745.11            152.29
745.12            152.26
745.13            152.30
745.14            152.26
745.15            152.31
745.16            152.32
745.17            152.26
745.18            152.26
745.19            152.27
745.20            152.28
745.21            152.33
745.22            152.22
745.23            152.34
745.24            152.35
745.25            152.36
753.01            110.03
753.02            110.02
753.03            110.04
753.04            110.05
753.05            110.01
753.06            110.05
753.07            110.06
753.99            110.99
757.01            111.01
757.02            111.02
761.01            112.01
761.02            112.02
769.01            110.20
769.99            110.99
921.01            97.01
923.01            97.30
923.02            97.30
923.03            97.31
923.04            97.32
923.05            97.33
923.06            97.34
925.01            97.15
925.02            97.16
925.03            97.16
925.04            97.17
925.05            97.18
925.06            97.17
925.07            97.19
925.08            97.20
927.01            98.01
927.02            98.02
927.03            98.35
927.04            98.35
927.05            98.36
927.06            98.37
927.07            98.15
927.08            98.38
927.09            98.16
927.10            98.17
927.11            98.18
927.12            98.19
927.13            98.20
927.14            98.21
927.15            98.39
927.99            98.99
941.01            50.01
941.02            50.02
941.03            50.03
941.04            50.04
941.05            50.05
943.01            54.01
943.02            54.02
943.03            54.03
943.04            54.04
943.05            54.05
943.06            54.06
943.07            54.07
943.08            54.08
943.09            54.09
943.99            54.99
945.01            53.01
945.02            53.60
945.03            53.61
945.04            53.02
945.05            53.03
945.06            53.21
945.07            53.22
945.08            53.20
945.09            53.04
945.10            53.23
945.11            53.24,
                  53.25
945.13            53.05
945.14            53.62
945.15            53.40
945.16            53.41
945.17            53.42
945.18            53.43
945.19            53.44
945.20            53.45
945.21            53.46
945.22            53.47
945.23            53.47
945.24            53.47
945.25            53.06
945.26            53.63
945.99            53.99
949.01            51.03
949.02            51.04
949.03            51.05
949.04            51.01
949.05            51.02
949.99            51.99
961.02            52.03
961.03            52.01
961.99            52.99
965.01            91.01
965.02            91.02
965.99            91.99
967.01            96.15
967.02            96.15
967.03            96.16
967.04            96.16
967.05            96.16
967.07            96.18
1105.01           32.085
1105.02           32.086
1121.01           153.001
1121.02           153.002
1121.03           153.003
1121.04           153.004
1123.01           153.095
1123.02           153.096
1123.03           153.097
1123.04           153.098
1123.05           153.099
1123.06           153.100
1123.07           153.101
1123.08           153.102
1123.09           153.103
1123.10           153.104
1123.11           153.104
1123.99           153.999
1125.01           153.015
1125.02           153.015
1125.03           153.016
1125.04           153.017
1125.05           153.018
1125.06           153.019
1125.07           153.020
1129.01           153.035
1129.02           153.035
1129.03           153.036
1129.04           153.037
1129.05           153.037
1129.06           153.039
1129.07           153.040
1129.08           153.041
1131.01           153.060
1131.02           153.061
1131.03           153.062
1131.04           153.063
1133.01           153.075
1133.02           153.076
1133.03           153.077
1133.04           153.078
1133.05           153.079
1133.06           153.080
1133.07           153.081
1141.01           154.001
1141.02           154.002
1141.03           154.003
1141.04           154.004
1143.01           154.005
1145.01           154.180
1145.02           154.181
1145.03           154.182
1145.04           154.183
1145.05           154.184
1145.06           154.185
1145.07           154.186
1145.99           154.999
1147.04           154.187
1147.05           154.187
1147.06           154.187
1147.07           154.187
1147.08           154.187
1147.09           154.187
1149.01           154.188
1149.02           154.188
1151.01           154.189
1151.02           154.189
1151.03           154.189
1153.01           154.015
1153.02           154.016
1153.03           154.017
1153.04           154.018
1153.05           154.019
1155.01 - 1155.04 154.020
1157.01 - 1157.04 154.021
1159.01 - 1159.04 154.022
1161.99           154.999
1161.01 - 1161.05 154.023
1163.01 - 1163.04 154.024
1165.01 - 1165.04 154.025
1167.01 - 1167.04 154.026
1169.01 - 1169.03 154.027
1171.01           154.040
1171.02           154.041
1171.03           154.042
1171.04           154.043
1171.05           154.044
1171.06           154.045
1173.01           154.060
1173.02           154.061
1175.01           154.075
1175.02           154.076
1175.03           154.076
1175.04           154.078
1175.05           154.079
1175.06           154.080
1175.08           154.081
1175.09           154.082
1175.10           154.083
1175.11           154.084
1175.12           154.085
1175.13           154.086
1175.14           154.087
1175.15           154.088
1175.16           154.089
1175.17           154.090
1175.18           154.091
1177.01           154.105
1177.02           154.106
1179.01           154.120
1179.02           154.121
1179.03           154.122
1179.04           154.123
1179.05           154.124
1179.06           154.125
1179.08           154.127
1179.09           154.128
1179.10           154.129
1179.11           154.130
1179.12           154.131
1179.13           154.132
1179.14           154.133
1179.15           154.134
1179.16           154.135
1179.17           154.135
1179.18           154.136
1179.19           154.137
1179.20           154.138
1179.99           154.999
1321.01           150.01
1321.02           150.01
1321.03           150.01
1321.04           150.01
1323.01           150.02
1323.02           150.02
1323.03           150.02
1323.04           150.02
1323.99           150.99
1341.01           150.15
1341.02           150.16
1341.03           150.17
1341.04           150.18
1341.05           150.17
1341.99           150.99
1343.01           150.19
1345.01           150.20
1345.02           150.20
1345.03           150.20
1345.04           150.20
1347.01           150.21
1349.01           152.50
1349.02           152.51
1349.03           152.52
1349.04           152.53
1349.05           152.54
1349.06           152.55
1349.07           152.56
1351.01           150.22
1353.01           150.23
1353.02           150.23
1353.03           150.23
1353.04           150.23
1353.05           150.23
1353.06           150.23
1353.07           150.23
1353.08           150.23
1355.01           150.24
1357.01           150.25
1501.01           93.01
1501.02           93.02
1501.03           93.02
1501.04           93.03
1501.05           93.04
1501.06           93.05
1501.07           93.06
1501.08           93.07
1501.09           93.09
1501.10           93.10
1501.11           93.11
1501.12           93.12
1501.99           93.99
1511.01           93.25
1511.02           93.26
1511.03           93.27
1511.04           93.28
1511.05           93.29
1519.01           93.40
1519.02           93.42
1519.03           93.45
1519.04           93.41
1519.05           93.47
1519.99           93.99
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
10-82    12-14-82    34.09
1-2000   3-28-00     T.S.O. VI
9-2002   2-14-02     34.13
5-2004   5-25-04     T.S.O. III
10-2005  5-10-05     T.S.O. III
11-2005  6-14-05     T.S.O. III
6-2006   5-23-06     T.S.O. III
7-2006   5-23-06     T.S.O. III
10-2006  6-27-06     T.S.O. III
14-2006  10-24-06    T.S.O. II
1-2007   2-27-07     T.S.O. III
2-2007   3-13-07     33.04
3-2007   3-13-07     33.04
4-2007   3-13-07     T.S.O. III
5-2007   3-13-07     T.S.O. III
8-2007   3-27-07     T.S.O. VII
9-2007   4-10-07     T.S.O. III
10-2007  4-24-07     51.06
11-2007  4-24-07     T.S.O. III
14-2007  5-8-07      T.S.O. III
18-2007  7-10-07     T.S.O. III
19-2007  8-24-07     T.S.O. III
21-2007  8-14-07     T.S.O. III
22-2007  8-14-07     T.S.O. III
23-2007  9-11-07     36.02
25-2007  9-25-07     T.S.O. III
26-2007  9-25-07     T.S.O. III
27-2007  9-25-07     T.S.O. III
28-2007  10-9-07     T.S.O. VII
29-2007  11-13-07    T.S.O. III
30-2007  11-13-07    T.S.O. VII
31-2007  11-13-07    T.S.O. III
32-2007  11-27-07    T.S.O. III
33-2007  11-27-07    T.S.O. III
1-2008   1-8-08      34.03
3-2008   2-26-08     34.04
5-2008   3-25-08     T.S.O. III
6-2008   4-8-08      T.S.O. III
10-2008  4-8-08      T.S.O. III
12-2008  4-22-08     T.S.O. III
13-2008  4-22-08     T.S.O. III
15-2008  5-13-08     T.S.O. III
16-2008  5-27-08     T.S.O. III
20-2008  7-8-08      T.S.O. VII
27-2008  8-12-08     T.S.O. III
29-2008  8-19-08     T.S.O. III
35-2008  10-28-08    36.03
37-2008  12-9-08     T.S.O. III
38-2008  12-9-08     T.S.O. III
1-2009   1-13-09     T.S.O. III
5-2009   3-10-09     T.S.O. VII
7-2009   4-14-09     T.S.O. III
8-2009   4-28-09     T.S.O. III
15-2009  5-26-09     T.S.O. III
18-2009  6-23-09     T.S.O. III
21-2009  7-28-09     T.S.O. III
22-2009  7-28-09     T.S.O. I
23-2009  7-28-09     T.S.O. III
24-2009  8-25-09     T.S.O. III
31-2009  11-13-06    T.S.O. II
32-2009  12-12-09    T.S.O. III
33-2009  12-12-09    T.S.O. III
5-2010   3-9-10      T.S.O. III
7-2010   4-13-10     T.S.O. III
8-2010   4-13-10     T.S.O. III
9-2010   5-11-10     T.S.O. III
14-2010  6-22-10     T.S.O. VII
15-2010  6-22-10     T.S.O. VII
17-2010  6-22-10     T.S.O. III
26-2010  8-24-10     T.S.O. III
28-2010  8-26-10     T.S.O. III
31-2010  10-12-10    T.S.O. III
32-2010  10-12-10    T.S.O. III
33-2010  10-12-10    T.S.O. III
35-2010  10-12-10    T.S.O. III
37-2010  11-9-10     T.S.O. III
38-2010  12-14-10    T.S.O. III
39-2010  12-14-10    T.S.O. III
40-2010  12-14-10    T.S.O. III
41-2010  12-14-10    T.S.O. III
42-2010  12-14-10    T.S.O. III
2-2011   2-8-11      T.S.O. III
3-2011   2-8-11      T.S.O. III
4-2011   2-8-11      T.S.O. III
5-2011   2-8-11      T.S.O. III
10-2011  8-23-11     T.S.O. III
14-2011  9-13-11     T.S.O. V
17-2011  10-11-11    T.S.O. III
22-2011  12-27-11    T.S.O. III
23-2011  12-27-11    T.S.O. III
24-2011  12-27-11    T.S.O. III
4-2012   2-14-12     T.S.O. III
7-2012   3-13-12     T.S.O. VII
11-2012  4-24-12     T.S.O. III
12-2012  5-8-12      T.S.O. III
15-2012  5-22-12     T.S.O. VII
16-2012  5-22-12     T.S.O. III
19-2012  6-26-12     T.S.O. III
27-2012  11-13-12    T.S.O. III
3-2013   2-12-13     T.S.O. III
7-2013   3-26-13     T.S.O. III
14-2013  5-28-13     T.S.O. III
15-2013  5-28-13     T.S.O. III
17-2013  8-13-13     T.S.O. III
20-2013  9-10-13     T.S.O. III
22-2013  10-22-13    T.S.O. III
23-2013  10-22-13    T.S.O. III
24-2013  10-22-13    T.S.O. III
25-2013  10-22-13    T.S.O. III
26-2013  10-22-13    T.S.O. VII
3-2014   1-29-14     T.S.O. III
4-2014   2-25-14     T.S.O. III
9-2014   4-8-14      T.S.O. III
10-2014  5-13-14     T.S.O. III
14-2014  6-10-15     T.S.O. III
15-2014  6-10-14     T.S.O. III
19-2014  6-24-14     T.S.O. III
23-2014  12-23-14    T.S.O. III
25-2014  12-23-14    T.S.O. III
26-2014  12-23-14    T.S.O. III
5-2015   4-28-15     T.S.O. III
6-2015   4-28-15     T.S.O. III
7-2015   4-28-15     T.S.O. III
17-2015  7-14-15     T.S.O. III
19-2015  8-11-15     T.S.O. VII
2-2016   3-8-16      T.S.O. III
8-2016   5-10-16     T.S.O. III
11-2016  5-24-16     T.S.O. III
16-2016  9-13-16     T.S.O. III
21-2016  9-27-16     T.S.O. III
23-2016  11-22-16    T.S.O. III
24-2016  12-13-16    T.S.O. VII
27-2016  12-13-16    T.S.O. III
28-2016  12-13-16    T.S.O. III
29-2016  12-13-16    T.S.O. III
30-2016  12-27-16    T.S.O. III
8-2017   5-9-17      T.S.O. I
9-2017   5-9-17      T.S.O. III
15-2017  6-27-17     T.S.O. III
17-2017  8-15-17     T.S.O. I
20-2017  11-14-17    T.S.O. III
22-2017  11-28-17    T.S.O. III
24-2017  11-28-17    T.S.O. III
25-2017  11-28-17    T.S.O. III
26-2017  11-28-17    36.04
27-2017  12-27-17    T.S.O. III
6-2018   4-10-18     T.S.O. III
8-2018   7-10-18     T.S.O. III
16-2018  11-13-18    T.S.O. III
17-2018  11-27-18    T.S.O. III
19-2018  12-20-18    T.S.O. III
20-18    12-20-18    T.S.O. III
9-2019   1-29-19     52.03
13-2019  5-28-19     T.S.O. III
14-2019  6-10-19     T.S.O. III
16-2019  7-9-19   T.S.O. V
17-2019  7-9-19   T.S.O. III
20-2019  9-24-19     T.S.O. III
21-2019  9-24-19     T.S.O. III
23-2019  9-27-19     T.S.O. III
26-2019  11-12-19    36.05
27-2019  11-12-19    T.S.O. III
28-2019  11-26-19    52.03
29-2019  12-10-19    T.S.O. III
30-2019  12-10-19    T.S.O. III
31-2019  12-30-19    T.S.O. III
32-2019  12-30-19    T.S.O. III
2-2020   1-28-20     T.S.O. III
3-2020   2-11-20     T.S.O. III
5-2020   3-31-20     T.S.O. III
6-2020   4-14-20     T.S.O. III
14-2020  7-14-20     T.S.O. V
15-2020  7-14-20     T.S.O. III
24-2020  10-13-20    T.S.O. III
25-2020  11-10-20    T.S.O. III
26-2020  11-24-20    31.07
29-2020  12-8-20     T.S.O. III
30-2020  12-8-20     T.S.O. III
32-2020  12-29-20    52.03
35-2020  12-29-20    T.S.O. III
3-2021   1-12-21     T.S.O. III
7-2021   3-23-21     T.S.O. I
8-2021   4-13-21     T.S.O. III
10-2021  7-13-21     T.S.O. III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
10-60    2-23-60     32.085
12-60    4-5-60      T.S.O. IV
8-62     5-15-62     T.S.O. I
5-63     2-19-63     T.S.O. IX
9-63     3-26-63     T.S.O. V
10-63    4-2-63      T.S.O. I
11-63    4-2-63      T.S.O. I
12-63    5-7-63      T.S.O. I
30-63    9-17-63     91.01
4-64     1-7-64      T.S.O. IV
24-64    6-16-64     T.S.O. I,
                     T.S.O. V
11-65    3-2-65      T.S.O. V
12-65    3-16-65     T.S.O. I
14-65    4-20-65     97.01
15-65    4-6-65      T.S.O. V
21-65    6-15-65     54.01 -
                     54.04
20-66    8-16-66     32.102
4-67     3-27-67     T.S.O. I
22-67    12-19-67    31.02
9-68     6-3-68      T.S.O. I
16-68    10-1-68     31.02
17-68    10-15-68    95.05
18-68    10-15-68    T.S.O. II
19-68    10-15-68    T.S.O. VI
9-69     5-20-69     52.01,
                     52.03
9-70     6-2-70      152.56
                     153.001 -
                     153.004,
                     153.015 -
                     153.020,
                     153.035 -
                     153.037,
                     153.039 -
17-70    9-22-70     153.041,
                     153.060 -
                     153.063,
                     153.075,
                     153.076,
                     153.078 -
                     153.080,
                     153.095 -
                     153.103
18-70    9-22-70     T.S.O. II
8-71     6-15-71     53.01
11-71    7-20-71     T.S.O. IX
13-71    11-16-71    152.50 -
                     152.55
6-72     5-2-72      152.50 -
                     152.36
10-72    5-16-72     T.S.O. IX
14-72    11-21-72    50.02,
                     50.03
                     53.01,
                     53.03 -
                     53.06,
                     53.20 -
8-73S    4-9-73      53.25,
                     53.42 -
                     53.44,
                     53.61 -
                     53.63
                     53.42,
10-73S   4-9-73      53.45 -
                     53.47,
                     53.60
16-73    11-6-73     T.S.O. IV
13-74    5-7-74      31.04
14-74    5-7-74      51.02
15-74    5-7-74      32.023
16-74    6-18-74     T.S.O. IV
1-75     2-4-75      T.S.O. I,
                     T.S.O. V
4-75     4-15-75     T.S.O. I,
                     T.S.O. V
9-75     5-20-75     T.S.O. V
12-75    7-1-75      T.S.O. V
13-75    7-1-75      T.S.O. V
28-75    12-16-75    T.S.O. V
10-76    3-26-76     T.S.O. V
20-76    7-6-76      T.S.O. I
22A-76   11-2-76     T.S.O. VI
13-78    7-10-78     T.S.O. I
22-78    11-21-78    T.S.O. VI
                     76.12,
                     76.13,
10-79    9-18-79     76.15,
                     76.16,
                     76.18,
                     76.19
11-79    9-18-79     70.25 -
                     70.29
12-79    8-7-79      132.16
19-80    6-1-80      31.01
5-81     1-23-81     T.S.O. VII
                     31.06,
                     32.070,
                     32.071,
                     32.100 -
                     32.102,
8-81     2-26-81     32.115,
                     32.130,
                     34.03 -
                     34.05,
                     34.08 -
                     34.11
                     32.002,
10-81    2-26-81     32.005,
                     32.006
22-81    7-29-81     50.04
23-81    7-29-81     54.08
24-81    8-13-81     153.077
26-81    8-27-81     92.01 -
                     92.06
28-81    8-27-81     53.41,
                     53.99
29-81    10-13-81    54.05
32-81    12-8-81     T.S.O. IV,
                     T.S.O. IX
5-82     1-12-82     32.002
19-82    11-22-82    T.S.O. VI
21-82    12-14-82    32.055 -
                     32.057
                     154.001 -
                     154.005,
                     154.015 -
                     154.027,
                     154.040 -
                     154.045,
                     154.060,
                     154.061,
26-82    12-28-82    154.075,
                     154.076,
                     154.078 -
                     154.091,
                     154.105,
                     154.106,
                     154.180 -
                     154.189,
                     154.999
27-82    12-28-82    51.03,
                     51.04
1-83     1-26-83     51.01,
                     51.05
3-83     1-26-83     T.S.O. I
7-83     2-15-83     154.183
8-83     2-15-83     T.S.O. I
9-83     2-15-83     T.S.O. VII
10-83    9-26-83     T.S.O. I
2-84     1-10-84     32.021
5-84     4-10-84     T.S.O. VII
6-84     4-10-84     30.01
12-84    6-12-84     T.S.O. I
16-84    7-10-84     96.15
14-84    8-14-84     132.16
19-84    8-14-84     153.104,
                     153.999
20-84    8-30-84     131.33
21-84    12-11-84    150.23
7-85     9-10-85     33.01
                     98.01,
                     98.02,
9-85     11-12-85    98.15 -
                     98.21,
                     98.35 -
                     98.40
6-86     7-8-86      34.08
8-86     11-11-86    T.S.O. IX
9-86     12-9-86     34.12
2-87     1-13-87     91.02
10-87    8-11-87     90.28
16-87    12-8-87     32.025
1-88     1-12-88     T.S.O. IX
5-88     2-9-88      T.S.O. IX
13-88    4-12-88     32.025
17-88    6-14-88     50.04
18-88    6-14-88     54.05
20-88    6-20-88     96.18
21-88    6-27-88     50.05
22-88    6-30-88     53.02
7-84     4-10-89     70.27
3-89     2-14-89     T.S.O. II
6-89     3-14-89     T.S.O. II
12-89    5-9-89      T.S.O. X
14-89    6-20-89     T.S.O. VII
15-89    8-8-89      97.02
17-89    9-12-89     T.S.O. I
6-90     2-13-90     53.40
10-90    3-13-90     31.01
15-90    12-13-90    54.06,
                     54.07
11-91    12-10-91    T.S.O. VI
15-91    12-17-91    T.S.O. X
16-91    12-17-91    T.S.O. X
12-92    6-9-92      35.01
13-92    8-11-92     T.S.O. X
                     154.120 -
4-93     2-9-92      154.138,
                     154.999
5-93     2-9-93      T.S.O. IV
8-93     2-9-93      34.04
17-93    5-11-93     31.02
24-93    9-14-93     T.S.O. X
32-93    12-14-93    T.S.O. IX
4-94     3-11-94     T.S.O. VII
6-94     3-11-94     91.02
7-94     4-12-94     T.S.O. I
9-94     5-10-94     34.07
11-94    5-10-94     54.09
25-94    12-13-94    T.S.O. I
26-94    12-20-94    T.S.O. II
8-95     4-11-95     T.S.O. X
9-95     4-11-95     T.S.O. I
10-95    4-11-95     154.027
11-95    4-11-95     T.S.O. X
15-95    5-15-95     32.025
16-95    6-13-95     154.999
18-95    7-11-95     T.S.O. X
22-95    10-17-95    34.10
27-95    12-12-95    34.01
7-96     4-9-96      76.17
8-96     4-9-96      T.S.O. V
10-96    4-9-96      132.16
14-96    5-14-96     36.01
16-96    7-9-96      153.060
17-96    8-13-96     153.060
18-96    8-13-96     154.020,
                     154.021
19-96    8-13-96     T.S.O. X
                     131.02,
                     131.08 -
                     131.18,
                     131.20,
                     131.23,
                     131.32,
                     132.04,
                     132.10,
                     133.03,
                     133.09,
                     134.05,
20-96    8-13-96     135.06,
                     135.23,
                     136.02,
                     136.07,
                     136.08,
                     137.02,
                     138.01 -
                     138.03,
                     138.05,
                     138.06,
                     138.08,
                     138.12
27-96    12-10-96    32.025
2-97     2-11-97     130.22
3-97     2-11-97     T.S.O. I
5-97     2-11-97     53.40
7-97     3-11-97     153.104
10-97    3-11-97     T.S.O. IV
13-97    5-6-97      53.40
16-97    6-10-97     154.021
17-97    6-10-97     154.020
19-97    6-10-97     32.003
20-97    7-8-97      T.S.O. IV
21-97    7-8-97      154.183
22-97    7-8-97      154.188
23-97    7-8-97      154.135
24-97    7-8-97      154.165 -
                     154.168
25-97    8-12-97     132.15
26-97    8-12-97     72.125
29-97    10-14-97    76.14
32-97    12-9-97     154.024
33-97    12-9-97     154.005
1-98     2-24-98     T.S.O. II
2-98     2-24-98     150.25
4-98     3-10-98     153.104
7-98     3-10-98     T.S.O. II
8-98     3-24-98     154.150,
                     154.151
13-98    5-12-98     76.14
16-98    7-28-98     32.023
17-98    8-11-98     154.021
19-98    8-25-98     93.27
20-98    9-8-98      153.104
22-98    11-10-98    52.03
25-98    12-8-98     130.22
3-99     2-9-99      T.S.O. IV
10-99    4-27-99     154.024
11-99    4-27-99     154.025
17-99    9-28-99     154.181,
                     154.182
18-99    10-12-99    154.092
20-99    11-9-99     T.S.O. IX
24-99    12-28-99    54.05
1-2000   2-8-00      76.17
2-2000   3-14-00     154.020
3-2000   3-14-00     154.021
4-2000   3-14-00     154.027
5-2000   3-14-00     154.026
9-2000   4-1-00      34.07
10-2000  4-24-00     34.08
11-2000  5-23-00     150.01
12-2000  5-23-00     150.02,
                     150.99
13-2000  5-23-00     150.15
17-2000  7-11-00     34.03
22-2000  8-22-00     31.02
24-2000  9-12-00     34.06
30-2000  10-24-00    34.11
31-2000  10-24-00    32.025
38-2000  11-28-00    31.01
39-2000  11-28-00    32.020
46-2000  12-12-00    91.02
4-2001   2-13-01     32.003
12-2001  5-22-01     T.S.O. III
13-2001  5-22-01     54.05
14-2001  5-22-01     53.40
18-2001  6-26-01     T.S.O. III
                     35.07 -
19-2001  6-26-01     35.09,
                     35.13,
                     35.14
20-2001  6-26-01     T.S.O. III
24-01    10-9-01     T.S.O. IX
25-01    10-9-01     31.06
35-2001  11-27-01    54.05
36-2001  11-27-01    35.06
--       12-3-01     T.S.O. V
38-2001  12-11-01    32.002
02-2002  1-8-02      52.03
03-2002  1-8-02      T.S.O. II
5-2002   2-14-02     154.024
9-2002   3-26-02     T.S.O. III
11-2002  4-9-02      T.S.O. III
12-2002  4-9-02      T.S.O. III
14-2002  4-9-02      T.S.O. III
15-2002  4-23-02     T.S.O. III
16-2002  4-23-02     T.S.O. III
18-2002  4-30-02     51.05
21-02    5-14-02     T.S.O. III
23-2002  6-25-02     T.S.O. X
24-02    7-9-02      T.S.O. IX
26-2002  9-10-02     T.S.O. X
--       11-12-02    T.S.O. V
--       11-12-02    T.S.O. V
30-2002  11-26-02    Adopting Ordinance
--       12-2-02     T.S.O. V
31-2002  12-10-02    T.S.O. III
32-2002  12-10-02    T.S.O. III
36-2002  12-10-02    T.S.O. III
2-2003   1-14-03     31.04,
                     31.06
3-2003   1-14-03     34.02,
                     34.09
WL-4     2-6-03      T.S.O. V
WL-T4    2-6-03      T.S.O. V
4-2003   2-11-03     54.05
5-2003   2-25-03     75.36
6-2003   2-25-03     54.05
7-2003   2-25-03     T.S.O. III
8-03     3-26-03     T.S.O. III
WL-5     4-23-03     T.S.O. V
WL-1     5-9-03      T.S.O. V
WL-2     5-9-03      T.S.O. V
WL-6     5-9-03      T.S.O. V
11-2003  5-13-03     T.S.O. III
12-2003  5-13-03     T.S.O. III
WL-3     5-23-03     T.S.O. V
14-2003  7-8-03      154.187
15-2003  8-12-03     T.S.O. I
16-2003  8-12-03     T.S.O. III
19-2003  8-26-03     T.S.O. III
21-2003  10-28-03    T.S.O. III
24-2003  10-28-03    T.S.O. VI
25-2003  11-11-03    Adopting Ordinance
26-2003  11-11-03    34.03
30-2003  12-23-03    T.S.O. III
32-2003  - -03       30.02,
                     31.01
1-2004   1-13-04     T.S.O. X
2-2004   1-13-04     T.S.O. X
3-2004   1-13-04     T.S.O. I
4-2004   1-27-04     30.02,
                     31.01
--       2-10-04     T.S.O. I
13-2004  4-13-04     31.02
15-04    5-25-04     T.S.O. III
16-04    5-25-04     T.S.O. VIII
18-04    6-8-04      T.S.O. III
19-04    6-22-04     T.S.O. IX
20-2004  7-13-04     T.S.O. X
21-2004  8-10-04     T.S.O. III
                     31.02(C),
                     31.06(B),
22-2004  8-10-04     32.070(A),
                     32.115(A),
                     32.130(A)
23-2004  9-28-04     T.S.O. III
24-2004  9-28-04     Adopting Ordinance
30-2004  10-26-04    T.S.O. IX
31-04    10-26-04    T.S.O. III
32-04    11-9-04     T.S.O. IX
33-04    11-9-04     T.S.O. X
34-04    11-19-04    T.S.O. X
36-04    11-23-04    T.S.O. III
37-04    11-23-04    T.S.O. III
38-04    11-23-04    T.S.O. III
39-04    11-23-04    T.S.O. IX
40-04    11-23-04    T.S.O. IX
1-05     2-8-05      T.S.O. III
3-2005   2-22-05     51.05
6-2005   2-22-05     T.S.O. VIII
7-05     3-8-05      T.S.O. III
8-05     3-22-05     T.S.O. III
9-2005   4-12-05     T.S.O. VII
12-05    4-26-05     T.S.O. III
13-2005  5-10-05     T.S.O. III
15-05    7-26-05     T.S.O. III
18-05    6-14-05     52.03(D)
20-05    7-26-05     T.S.O. III
21-05    7-26-05     T.S.O. III
22-05    8-9-05      T.S.O. III
24-2005  8-23-05     T.S.O. III
27-05    9-16-05     T.S.O. X
32-05    11-22-05    50.01
33-05    11-22-05    Adopting Ordinance
34-05    11-22-05    T.S.O. III
35-05    11-22-05    T.S.O. III
36-05    12-13-05    T.S.O. III
37-05    12-13-05    T.S.O. III
40-05    12-13-05    T.S.O. VII
41-05    12-13-05    T.S.O. III
42-05    12-13-05    T.S.O. III
43-05    12-13-05    T.S.O. III
1-06     1-24-06     T.S.O. III
2-06     1-24-06     T.S.O. III
3-06     1-24-06     T.S.O. III
4-06     1-24-06     T.S.O. VII
5-06     2-14-06     T.S.O. III
6-06     2-28-06     T.S.O. III
8-06     2-28-06     T.S.O. III
9-06     2-28-06     T.S.O. III
10-06    2-28-06     T.S.O. III
13-06    3-28-06     T.S.O. III
14-06    3-28-06     T.S.O. III
15-06    4-11-06     T.S.O. III
18-06    6-13-06     T.S.O. III
22-06    8-8-06      T.S.O. VII
23-06    8-8-06      T.S.O. III
24-06    8-8-06      T.S.O. III
25-06    8-8-06      32.025
26-06    8-8-06      T.S.O. III
28-06    9-12-06     T.S.O. III
29-06    9-12-06     T.S.O. III
30-06    9-12-06     T.S.O. III
33-06    11-14-06    T.S.O. I
34-2006  11-14-06    T.S.O. VII
35-06    11-28-06    T.S.O. VII
36-06    11-28-06    T.S.O. III
37-06    11-28-06    T.S.O. III
38-2006  11-28-06    T.S.O. III
39-06    11-28-06    T.S.O. III
42-2006  12-12-06    Adopting Ordinance
43-06    12-26-06    T.S.O. III
3-2007   2-27-07     T.S.O. III
4-2007   2-27-07     154.187
5-2007   2-27-07     T.S.O. III
8-2007   2-27-07     33.05
10-2007  3-13-07     93.13
11-2007  3-13-07     33.05
12-2007  3-27-07     T.S.O. X
13-07    4-10-07     T.S.O. X
                     54.03,
15-07    4-24-07     54.10,
                     54.90
19-2007  5-22-07     T.S.O. III
20-07    5-22-07     53.40,
                     54.07
24-2007  8-14-07     T.S.O. II
27-2007  12-11-07    T.S.O. I
28-07    12-11-07    T.S.O. III
29-07    12-11-07    T.S.O. III
30-07    12-11-07    T.S.O. III
                     35.01 -
31-2007  12-18-07    35.16,
                     35.99
1-2008   1-8-08      31.02
2-2008   1-22-08     T.S.O. III
3-2008   1-22-08     T.S.O. III
4-2008   1-22-08     34.20 -
                     34.25
6-2008   2-12-08     T.S.O. X
7-2008   2-12-08     T.S.O. X
8-2008   2-12-08     T.S.O. X
9-2008   2-12-08     T.S.O. X
10-2008  2-12-08     T.S.O. X
11-2008  2-12-08     T.S.O. III
12-2008  2-26-08     54.05
13-2008  2-26-08     31.02
—      2-26-08     T.S.O. I
23-2008  5-27-08     T.S.O. I
24-2008  6-10-08     32.007
25-2008  7-8-08      Adopting Ordinance
27-2008  7-22-08     54.05
28-2008  7-22-08     53.40
29-2008  7-22-08     T.S.O. X
32-2008  9-9-08      154.187
35-2008  10-14-08    53.21
38-2008  11-25-08    54.11
40-2008  12-9-08     52.03
1-2009   1-13-09     154.095
2-2009   1-13-09     34.07
4-2009   1-13-09     T.S.O. I
5-2009   2-24-09     50.06
6-2009   3-10-09     31.02
7-2009   3-10-09     113.01
9-2009   4-28-09     53.40
12-2009  5-26-09     150.25
13-2009  5-26-09     53.40
17-2009  6-23-09     95.20,
                     95.22
19-2009  7-28-09     T.S.O. II
23-2009  10-13-09    154.093,
                     154.094
24-2009  11-13-09    T.S.O. III
26-2009  12-28-09    32.025
1-2010   1-12-10     T.S.O. III
2-2010   1-12-10     T.S.O. I
3-2010   2-11-10     T.S.O. III
11-2010  6-8-10      114.01 -
                     114.13
                     114.20 -
12-2010  6-8-10      114.23,
                     114.99
14-2010  7-27-10     154.006
19-2010  10-12-10    T.S.O. I
21-2010  11-9-10     T.S.O. I
22-2010  12-14-10    Adopting Ordinance
26-2010  12-28-10    32.025
3-2011   1-11-11     31.02
4-2011   1-11-11     70.25
                     151.01 -
                     151.10,
                     151.20 -
                     151.31,
7-2011   3-8-11      151.40 -
                     151.49,
                     151.60 -
                     151.65,
                     151.75 -
                     151.77
9-2011   3-22-11     T.S.O. III
10-2011  4-12-11     T.S.O. III
11-2011  4-12-11     30.01
13-2011  4-12-11     T.S.O. III
15-2011  4-26-11     32.003
17-2011  6-28-11     138.19
20-2011  9-13-11     35.15
25-2011  11-22-11    35.15
26-2011  11-22-11    54.05
27-2011  11-22-11    53.40
1-2012   2-14-12     91.02
2-2012   2-14-12     32.003
6-2012   4-24-12     35.06
7-2012   3-27-12     T.S.O. I
8-2012   4-10-12     34.04
9-2012   4-24-12     154.020
13-2012  7-24-12     T.S.O. III
14-2012  8-14-12     T.S.O. I
15-2012  8-14-12     T.S.O. III
16-2012  8-28-12     T.S.O. III
17-2012  8-28-12     Adopting Ordinance
19-2012  11-13-12    91.02
2-2013   2-12-13     T.S.O. VII
3-2013   2-26-13     T.S.O. III
4-2013   3-26-13     32.025
6-2013   3-26-13     150.25
8-2013   6-11-13     91.03
14-2013  6-25-13     150.25
15-2013  7-9-13      91.02
17-2013  9-10-13     53.40
18-2013  9-10-13     T.S.O. III
19-2013  9-10-13     T.S.O. III
2-2014   1-14-14     32.025
3-2014   2-11-14     72.118
6-2014   2-25-14     76.15
7-2014   2-25-14     76.00
9-2014   4-22-14     54.05
10-2014  4-22-14     53.40
11-2014  5-13-14     96.15,
                     96.16
14-2014  5-27-14     95.20 -
                     95.23
19-2014  8-12-14     T.S.O. III
24-2014  10-28-14    T.S.O. III
26-2014  10-28-14    90.36
27-2014  10-28-14    98.17
28-2014  10-28-14    76.13
30-2014  12-23-14    154.015,
                     154.028
31-2014  12-23-14    32.025
35-2014  12-23-14    34.10
11-2015  8-11-15     Adopting Ordinance
                     37.01 -
18-2015  11-24-15    37.211,
                     37.97 -
                     37.99
19-2015  11-24-15    31.02
22-2015  12-22-15    54.05
2-2016   2-23-16     95.07
3-2016   2-23-16     93.29
5-2016   3-8-16      50.07
6-2016   5-10-16     34.06
12-2016  7-12-16     77.01 -
                     77.09
13-2016  7-26-16     75.08
15-2016  9-13-16     91.02
16-2016  9-13-16     74.55
19-2016  9-13-16     37.051
7-2017   5-9-17      Repeals 96.17
11-2017  6-13-17     T.S.O. I
13-200   8-22-17     90.28
15-2017  9-12-17     53.40
17-2017  9-12-17     34.07
18-2017  9-12-17     34.03
19-2017  9-12-17     34.06
20-2017  9-12-17     154.186
21-2017  11-14-17    T.S.O. I
23-2017  11-14-17    34.06
26-2017  12-27-17    150.26
2-2018   1-23-18     T.S.O. VII
3-2018   3-13-18     T.S.O. III
4-2018   3-13-18     T.S.O. III
5-2018   3-13-18     T.S.O. VII
12-2018  7-10-18     90.36
14-2018  7-24-18     34.03
15-2018  8-14-18     T.S.O. IV
16-2018  8-14-18     T.S.O. IX
18-2018  10-23-18    T.S.O. IX
19-2018  10-23-18    Adopting Ordinance
                     31.02,
20-2018  10-23-18    32.070,
                     32.115,
                     32.130, Repeals 31.05, 32.101, 32.116, 32.131
1-2019   1-22-19     36.06
2-2019   1-22-19     34.06
4-2019   2-12-19     T.S.O. III
5-2019   2-12-19     T.S.O. III
6-2019   2-12-19     T.S.O. V
11-2019  7-9-19      53.40
13-2019  8-13-19     52.03
14-2019  9-10-19     96.01 -
                     96.05
1-2020   2-11-20     90.38
2-2020   3-10-20     T.S.O. III
4-2020   7-28-20     138.01
6-2020   9-8-20      154.026
9-2020   9-22-20     Repeals 52.02
13-2020  10-27-20    70.061
4-2021   3-9-21   154.180
5-2021   3-23-21     T.S.O. II
7-2021   4-13-21     32.022
8-2021   4-13-21     T.S.O. I
10-2021  4-13-21     T.S.O. I
                     34.06,
18-2021  7-27-21     34.07,
                     34.08,
                     34.12
                    
 
