STRASBURG, OHIO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. O-27-2024, passed 2-4-2025
State legislation current through 6-26-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 0-20-2023
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE
   VILLAGE OF STRASBURG, OHIO — REVISING, RE-STATING, CODIFYING
   AND COMPILING EXISTING VILLAGE GENERAL ORDINANCES, AS
   COMPILED BY AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
   Whereas, the Village of Strasburg has historically passed and maintained
ordinances, by ordinance number, and had not compiled them into a numbered code
or ordinances, and it became apparent that the Village needed to codify its
general ordinances, for ease of use and reference, both by Village officials
and by the public, and
   Whereas, in Ordinance 0-18-2022, Village Council authorized hiring of
American Legal Publishing to review the Village's existing ordinances, and to
arrange them in a logical numbered order, into a code of general ordinances,
and
   Whereas, American Legal Publishing did compile and arrange the Village's
general ordinances into a numbered and ordered code of ordinances, and in
August, 2023, submitted the final version of the Strasburg Code of Ordinances
to the Village, for review and approval, and
   Now therefore, the Village Council of Strasburg, Ohio ordains as follows,
   Sec. 1 — The Strasburg Code of Ordinances submitted by American Legal
Publishing to the Village of Strasburg is hereby adopted, in full, and ratified
as containing the general ordinances of the Village, and compiled in book form
as the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of Strasburg, Ohio." The Village's
general ordinances may be referred to, in all official proceedings and court
actions, by either their ordinance number or their codified (section) number.
   Sec. 2 — The Code of Ordinances adopted herein shall consist of the
following Titles:
      Title I -   General Provisions
      Title III -   Administration
      Title V -   Public Works
      Title VII -   Traffic Code
      Title IX -   General Regulations
      Title XI -   Business Regulations
      Title XIII -   General Offenses
      Title XV -   Land Usage
   Sec. 3 — This ordinance is not intended to repeal any existing general
Village ordinances, even though some of them may be modified in the
codification process. In case of conflict between an existing general ordinance
and the codified version thereof, the codified version thereof shall take
precedence.
   Sec. 4 — Ordinances passed after the date of passage of this ordinance shall
be effective under their ordinance numbers, until incorporated by American
Legal Publishing into the codified ordinances; thereafter, they may be referred
to by either their ordinance number or their codified (section) number.
   Sec. 5 — The Code of Ordinances shall become effective on the date of
passage by Council and ratification by the Mayor.
First reading — October 17, 2023
Second reading — November 7, 2023
Third reading and passed — November 21, 2023:
   Steven C. Smith /s/
   STEVEN C. SMITH, MAYOR
ATTEST:
   Jennifer Mahoney /s/
   JENNIFER MAHONEY,
   FISCAL OFFICER
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Short titles
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Rules of construction
   
10.04   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.05   Construction of section references
   
10.06   Conflicting provisions
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Ordinances repealed
   
10.11   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.12   Ordinances saved
   
10.13   Application to future ordinances
   
10.14   Interpretation
   
10.15   Amendments to code; amendatory language
   
10.16   Statutory references
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Determination of legislative intent
   
10.19   Alternate means of providing notice of violation to persons who refuse,
do not accept, or do not take delivery of personal service of or of certified
mail service of notices
   
10.20   Repeat violations of ordinances requiring written notice prior to
official action
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 SHORT TITLES.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the municipality,
as revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Strasburg Municipal Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”,
“codified ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
(R.C. § 1.01)
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to such
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AND/OR. The word “and” may be read as “or”, and the word “or” may be read as
“and”, if the sense requires it.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOND. Includes an undertaking.
   CERTIFIED MAIL. Includes registered mail.
   CHILD. Includes child by adoption.
   COUNCIL. The legislative authority of the municipality.
   COUNTY. Tuscarawas County, Ohio.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall include the Chief of the Fire Department if a Fire
Department has been established in the municipality, and shall include the Fire
Prevention Officer if no Fire Department has been established in the
municipality.
   IMPRISONED. Shall have the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.05.
   INTERNET. The international computer network of both federal and non-federal
interoperable packet switched data networks, including the graphical subnetwork
known as the World Wide Web.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves or
as a servant, agent or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of incorporeal nature.
   LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY. The Legislative Authority of the municipality.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY, VILLAGE or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Village of Strasburg,
Ohio.
   O.A.C. Refers to the Ohio Administrative Code.
   OATH. Includes affirmation.
   OF UNSOUND MIND. The person lacks the relevant mental capacity.
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner or
tenant in common of the whole or part of that property.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real property.
   PLAN OF SEWERAGE, SYSTEM OF SEWERAGE, SEWER and SEWERS. Includes sewers,
sewage disposal works and treatment plants, and sewage pumping stations,
together with facilities and appurtenances necessary and proper therefor.
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates and interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes boards of education; the municipal, county, state
or federal government, its officers or an agency thereof; or any duly
authorized public official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation or amusement.
   R.C. Refers to the Ohio Revised Code.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of the street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
   STATE. The State of Ohio.
   STREET. Includes alleys, avenues, boulevards, lanes, roads, highways,
viaducts and all other public thoroughfares within the municipality.
   SWEAR. Includes affirm.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   UNDERTAKING. Includes a bond.
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITING. Includes printing.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. The terms include any representation of words,
letters, symbols or figures; this provision does not affect any law relating to
signatures.
   YEAR. Twelve consecutive months.
(R.C. §§ 1.02, 1.05, 1.44, 1.59, 701.01)
§ 10.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Common and technical usage. Words and phrases shall be read in context
and construed according to the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and
phrases that have acquired a technical or particular meaning, whether by
legislative definition or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
(R.C. § 1.42)
   (B)   Singular and plural; gender; tenses. As used in this code, unless the
context otherwise requires:
      (1)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
      (2)   Words of one gender include the other genders.
      (3)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
(R.C. § 1.43)
   (C)   Calendar; computation of time.
      (1)   The time within which an act is required by law to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and including the last day; except that when
the last day falls on Sunday or a legal holiday, then the act may be done on
the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal holiday.
      (2)   When a public office, in which an act required by law is to be
performed, is closed to the public for the entire day that constitutes the last
day for doing the act or before its usual closing time on that day, the act may
be performed on the next succeeding day that is not a Sunday or a legal
holiday.
      (3)   As used in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this section, LEGAL
HOLIDAY means the following days:
         (a)   The first day of January, known as New Year’s Day;
         (b)   The third Monday in January, known as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day;
         (c)   The third Monday in February, known as Washington-Lincoln Day;
         (d)   The day designated in the “Act of June 28, 1968”, 82 Stat. 250,
5 U.S.C. § 6103, as amended, for the commemoration of Memorial Day;
         (e)   The nineteenth day of June, known as Juneteenth day;
         (f)   The fourth day of July, known as Independence Day;
         (g)   The first Monday in September, known as Labor Day;
         (h)   The second Monday in October, known as Columbus Day;
         (i)   The eleventh day of November, known as Veteran’s Day;
         (j)   The fourth Thursday in November, known as Thanksgiving Day;
         (k)   The twenty-fifth day of December, known as Christmas Day; and
         (l)   Any day appointed and recommended by the Governor of this state
or the President of the United States as a holiday.
      (4)   If any day designated in this section as a legal holiday falls on a
Sunday, the next succeeding day is a legal holiday.
(R.C. § 1.14)
      (5)   When an act is to take effect or become operative from and after a
day named, no part of that day shall be included. If priority of legal rights
depends upon the order of events on the same day, the priority shall be
determined by the times in the day at which they respectively occurred.
(R.C. § 1.15)
      (6)   If a number of months is to be computed by counting the months from
a particular day, the period ends on the same numerical day in the concluding
month as the day of the month from which the computation is begun, unless there
are not that many days in the concluding month, in which case the period ends
on the last day of that month.
(R.C. § 1.45)
      (7)   In all cases where the law shall require any act to be done in a
reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or notice
shall mean such time only as may be necessary for the prompt performance of the
duty or compliance with the notice.
   (D)   Numbers. If there is a conflict between figures and words in
expressing a number, the words govern.
(R.C. § 1.46)
   (E)   Authority. When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as
well be done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be
construed to include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (F)   Joint authority. All words purporting to give joint authority to three
or more municipal officers or other persons shall be construed as giving that
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority, or it is
inconsistent with state law or municipal charter provisions.
   (G)   Exceptions. The rules of construction shall not apply to any law which
contains any express provision excluding the construction, or when the subject
matter or context of the law is repugnant thereto.
§ 10.04 REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing statute does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
(R.C. § 1.57)
   (B)   The re-enactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not,
except as provided in division (C) of this section:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment; and the
investigation, proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture or punishment for any offense is reduced by
a re-enactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
(R.C. § 1.58)
   (D)   An ordinance which is re-enacted or amended is intended to be a
continuation of the prior ordinance and not a new enactment, so far as it is
the same as the prior ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.54)
§ 10.05 CONSTRUCTION OF SECTION REFERENCES.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, or of divisions or subdivisions of a
section, the reference shall be construed to mean a violation of any provision
of the section, sections, divisions or subdivisions included in the reference.
   (B)   References in the code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of the code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
(R.C. § 1.23)
   (C)   A reference to any portion of a provision of this code applies to all
re-enactments or amendments thereof.
(R.C. § 1.55)
   (D)   If a section refers to a series of numbers or letters, the first and
the last numbers or letters are included.
(R.C. § 1.56)
   (E)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter has been
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.06 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If a general provision conflicts with a special or local provision,
they shall be construed, if possible, so that effect is given to both. If the
conflict between the provisions is irreconcilable, the special or local
provision prevails as an exception to the general provision, unless the general
provision is the later adoption and the manifest intent is that the general
provision prevail.
(R.C. § 1.51)
   (B)   (1)   If ordinances enacted at different meetings of the Legislative
Authority are irreconcilable, the ordinance latest in date of enactment
prevails.
      (2)   If amendments to the same ordinance are enacted at different
meetings of the Legislative Authority, one amendment without reference to
another, the amendments are to be harmonized, if possible, so that effect may
be given to each. If the amendments are substantively irreconcilable, the
latest in date of enactment prevails. The fact that a later amendment restates
language deleted by an earlier amendment, or fails to include language inserted
by an earlier amendment, does not of itself make the amendments irreconcilable.
Amendments are irreconcilable only when changes made by each cannot reasonably
be put into simultaneous operation.
(R.C. § 1.52)
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between any of the provisions of this code,
or between any of the provisions of this code and any standard code adopted by
the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 731.231, the provision that establishes the
higher or stricter standard shall control.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of this code or the application thereof to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions or applications of the section or related sections which can
be given effect without the invalid provision or application, and to this end
the provisions are severable.
(R.C. § 1.50)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affected, the use of words to which no meaning can be attached, or
the use of a word when another word was clearly intended to express the
intention, the spelling shall be corrected, and the words supplied, omitted or
substituted shall conform with the manifest intention, and the provision shall
have the same effect as though the correct words were contained in the text as
originally published. No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question
exists regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   With the exception of any ordinances specifically saved by the municipality,
this code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.11 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature, all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this code of ordinances,
and all ordinances specifically saved by the municipality shall remain in full
force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the
legislative body, or a certain municipal officer or employee, to make
additional ordinances or regulations for the purpose of carrying out the
intention of the ordinance, all ordinances and regulations of a similar nature
serving the purpose, effected prior to the codification and not inconsistent
thereto, shall remain in effect and are saved.
§ 10.13 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.14 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.15 AMENDMENTS TO CODE; AMENDATORY LANGUAGE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to the adoption of this code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this code and need not be inserted in
this code, but shall be treated as if printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   The following language may be used by the municipality to amend, add,
or repeal a chapter, section, or division:
      (1)   To amend a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances is amended to read as follows: ....”
      (2)   To add a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, which is to be added to and amends the Municipal Code of
Ordinances, reads as follows: ....”
      (3)   To repeal a section: “Section                 of the Municipal Code
of Ordinances, which reads as follows, is repealed: ....”
§ 10.16 STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, located in parentheses
immediately following a division or section of this code, this indicates that
the text of the division or section is substantially equivalent to the
statutory provision.
   Example: (R.C. § 4511.02)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following
the text of a section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
   Example:
   § 30.08 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      Unless otherwise exempted by state law, all public records shall be
promptly prepared and made available for inspection to any person.
   Statutory reference:
      Public records, see R.C. § 149.43
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 DETERMINATION OF LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   In enacting an ordinance, it is presumed that:
      (1)   Compliance with the constitutions of the State and of the United
States is intended;
      (2)   The entire ordinance is intended to be effective;
      (3)   A just and reasonable result is intended; and
      (4)   A result feasible of execution is intended.
(R.C. § 1.47)
   (B)   An ordinance is presumed to be prospective in its operation unless
expressly made retrospective.
(R.C. § 1.48)
   (C)   If an ordinance is ambiguous, the court, in determining the intention
of the Legislative Authority, may consider among other matters:
      (1)   The object sought to be attained;
      (2)   The circumstances under which the ordinance was enacted;
      (3)   The legislative history;
      (4)   The common law or former legislative provisions, including laws
upon the same or similar subjects;
      (5)   The consequences of a particular construction; and
      (6)   The administrative construction of the ordinance.
(R.C. § 1.49)
§ 10.19 ALTERNATE MEANS OF PROVIDING NOTICE OF VIOLATION TO PERSONS WHO REFUSE,
DO NOT ACCEPT, OR DO NOT TAKE DELIVERY OF PERSONAL SERVICE OF OR OF CERTIFIED
MAIL SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Whenever any section of this code or another village ordinance
requires that the village serve a notice of violation by certified mail before
taking further action against the intended recipient of the notice of
violation, and if attempted service of a notice of violation by certified mail
is refused, and the certified mail envelope shows such refusal, or if attempted
service of a notice of violation by certified mail is returned with an
endorsement stating the envelope was unclaimed, the village official that sent
such notice may serve the intended recipient of the notice with a copy of the
notice of violation by ordinary United States mail. Service of such notice of
violation shall be deemed to have been completed in accord with the applicable
section of this code or other village ordinance, on the fourth business day
after such notice of violation is mailed from a United States post office.
   (B)   Whenever any section of code or another village ordinance requires
that the village serve personal notice of a violation before taking further
action against the intended recipient of the notice of violation, and if the
intended recipient of such notice either acts to avoid receipt of such notice,
or appears not to be living at the address which is the subject of the notice,
then the village official that attempted to serve such notice may serve the
intended recipient of the notice of violation by ordinary United States mail.
Service of such notice of violation shall be deemed to have been completed in
accord with the applicable section of this code or other village ordinance on
the fourth business day after such notice of violation is mailed from a United
States post office box. The village official shall place in the violation file
the dates on which he or she attempted personal service of the notice of
violation.
(Ord. O-5-2022, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 10.20 REPEAT VIOLATIONS OF ORDINANCES REQUIRING WRITTEN NOTICE PRIOR TO
OFFICIAL ACTION.
   (A)   Application. This section applies to any other section of this code or
another village ordinance that requires that the village serve a written notice
of violation before taking further action against the intended recipient of the
notice of violation.
   (B)   Repeat violation after perfection of service of written notice. Where
service of a required written notice is perfected and is followed by a period
of apparent compliance with the applicable municipal regulation or ordinance,
and the notice recipient re-engages in the same or substantially similar
conduct in violation of said municipal regulation or ordinance, then the
village may serve the notice percipient with an ordinary mail dated notice of
violation and demand to abate the violation within ten days. Notice shall be
deemed to have been completed hereunder on the fourth business day after such
notice is mailed from a United States post office box.
   (C)   Notice. If the notice recipient has not abated the violation stated in
the notice, in the manner set forth in the notice, within ten days after
perfection of said notice, the village may thereafter take any action
authorized in the applicable municipal regulation or ordinance.
   (D)   Applicable. For this section to apply, the initial notice of violation
seeking abatement served to a person shall advise that person that subsequent
notices relating to the same or substantially similar conduct will be made
under this section.
(Ord. O-37-2022, passed 9-20-2022)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever, in this municipal code or in any ordinance of the
municipality, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is
otherwise provided, whoever violates any such provision shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500, a term of imprisonment not exceeding six months, or
both. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which
a violation continues or occurs.
   (B)   The failure of any officer or employee of the municipality to perform
any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or
employee to the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is
specifically provided for the failure.
Cross-reference:
   Misdemeanor classifications, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see R.C. § 715.67
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
34.   INCOME TAX
      
35.   PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
      
36.   PLANS AND POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Departments heads to attend Council meetings and/or submit written
reports
   
30.02   Meetings of public bodies to be open; exceptions; notice
   
30.03   Weapons prohibited on village-owned property
   
30.04   Public records available
§ 30.01 DEPARTMENTS HEADS TO ATTEND COUNCIL MEETINGS AND/OR SUBMIT WRITTEN
REPORTS.
   (A)   All department heads, including, but not limited to, the Water and
Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator, Street Superintendent, Police
Chief, Fire Chief, Zoning Inspector and Income Tax Administrator, shall be
required to attend at least one meeting of the village legislative authority
per month.
   (B)   It is the preference of the village that the monthly meeting for which
all department heads are required to attend be the first monthly meeting each
month, normally scheduled for the first Tuesday at 6:00 p.m.
   (C)   In the event that any of the above department heads are unable to
attend, they shall have a responsible assistant attend on their behalf.
(Res. R-02-2006, passed 7-18-2006)
§ 30.02 MEETINGS OF PUBLIC BODIES TO BE OPEN; EXCEPTIONS; NOTICE.
   (A)   This section shall be liberally construed to require public officials
to take official action and to conduct all deliberations upon official business
only in open meetings, unless the subject matter is specifically excepted by
law.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MEETING. Any prearranged discussion of the public business of the public
body by a majority of its members.
      PUBLIC BODY. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any board, commission, committee, council or similar decision-
making body of a state agency, institution or authority, and any legislative
authority or board, commission, committee, council, agency, authority or
similar decision-making body of any county, township, municipal corporation,
school district or other political subdivision or local public institution;
         (b)   Any committee or subcommittee of a body described in division
(a) of this definition; or
         (c)   A court of jurisdiction of a sanitary district organized wholly
for the purpose of providing a water supply for domestic municipal and public
use when meeting for the purpose of the appointment, removal or reappointment
of a member of the board of directors of such a district pursuant to R.C. §
6115.10, if applicable, or for any other matter related to such a district
other than litigation involving the district. As used in this division (c),
COURT OF JURISDICTION has the same meaning as “court” in R.C. § 6115.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.011.
      REGULATED INDIVIDUAL. Either of the following:
         (a)   A student in a state or local public educational institution; or
         (b)   A person who is, voluntarily or involuntarily, an inmate,
patient or resident of a state or local institution because of criminal
behavior, mental illness, an intellectual disability, disease, disability, age
or other condition requiring custodial care.
   (C)   (1)   All meetings of any public body are declared to be public
meetings open to the public at all times. A member of a public body shall be
present in person at a meeting open to the public to be considered present or
to vote at the meeting and for purposes of determining whether a quorum is
present at the meeting.
      (2)   The minutes of a regular or special meeting of any public body
shall be promptly prepared, filed and maintained and shall be open to public
inspection. The minutes need only reflect the general subject matter of
discussions in executive sessions authorized under division (F) of this
section.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following: a grand jury; an
audit conference conducted by the auditor of state or independent certified
public accountants with officials of the public office that is the subject of
the audit; or to other entities as set forth in R.C. § 121.22(D) and (E).
   (E)   (1)   Every public body, by rule, shall establish a reasonable method
whereby any person may determine the time and place of all regularly scheduled
meetings and the time, place and purpose of all special meetings. A public body
shall not hold a special meeting unless it gives at least 24 hours’ advance
notice to the news media that have requested notification, except in the event
of an emergency requiring immediate official action. In the event of an
emergency, the member or members calling the meeting shall notify the news
media that have requested notification immediately of the time, place and
purpose of the meeting.
      (2)   The rule shall provide that any person, upon request and payment of
a reasonable fee, may obtain reasonable advance notification of all meetings at
which any specific type of public business is to be discussed. Provisions for
advance notification may include, but are not limited to, mailing the agenda of
meetings to all subscribers on a mailing list or mailing notices in self-
addressed, stamped envelopes provided by the person.
   (F)   Except as provided division (F)(8) of this section, the members of a
public body may hold an executive session only after a majority of a quorum of
the public body determines, by a roll call vote, to hold an executive session
and only at a regular or special meeting for the sole purpose of the
consideration of any of the following matters:
      (1)   To consider the appointment, employment, dismissal, discipline,
promotion, demotion or compensation of a public employee or official, or the
investigation of charges or complaints against a public employee, official,
licensee or regulated individual, unless the public employee, official,
licensee or regulated individual requests a public hearing. Except as otherwise
provided by law, no public body shall hold an executive session for the
discipline of an elected official for conduct related to the performance of the
elected official’s official duties or for the elected official’s removal from
office. If a public body holds an executive session pursuant to this division
(F)(1), the motion and vote to hold that executive session shall state which
one or more of the approved purposes listed in this division (F)(1) are the
purposes for which the executive session is to be held, but need not include
the name of any person to be considered at the meeting;
      (2)   (a)   To consider the purchase of property for public purposes, the
sale of property at competitive bidding or the sale or other disposition of
unneeded, obsolete or unfit-for-use property in accordance with R.C. § 505.10,
if premature disclosure of information would give an unfair competitive or
bargaining advantage to a person whose personal, private interest is adverse to
the general public interest. No member of a public body shall use this division
(F)(2) as a subterfuge for providing covert information to prospective buyers
or sellers. A purchase or sale of public property is void if the seller or
buyer of the public property has received covert information from a member of a
public body that has not been disclosed to the general public in sufficient
time for other prospective buyers and sellers to prepare and submit offers.
         (b)   If the minutes of the public body show that all meetings and
deliberations of the public body have been conducted in compliance with this
section, any instrument executed by the public body purporting to convey, lease
or otherwise dispose of any right, title or interest in any public property
shall be conclusively presumed to have been executed in compliance with this
section insofar as title or other interest of any bona fide purchasers, lessees
or transferees of the property is concerned.
      (3)   Conferences with an attorney for the public body concerning
disputes involving the public body that are the subject of pending or imminent
court action;
      (4)   Preparing for, conducting or reviewing negotiations or bargaining
sessions with public employees concerning their compensation or other terms and
conditions of their employment;
      (5)   Matters required to be kept confidential by federal law or
regulations or state statutes;
      (6)   Details relative to the security arrangements and emergency
response protocols for a public body or a public office, if disclosure of the
matters discussed could reasonably be expected to jeopardize the security of
the public body or public office;
      (7)   In the case of a county hospital operated pursuant to R.C. Chapter
339, a joint township hospital operated pursuant to R.C. Chapter 513, or a
municipal hospital operated pursuant to R.C. Chapter 749, to consider trade
secrets, as defined in R.C. § 1333.61;
      (8)   To consider confidential information related to the marketing
plans, specific business strategy, production techniques, trade secrets or
personal financial statements of an applicant for economic development
assistance, or to negotiations with other political subdivisions respecting
requests for economic development assistance; provided that both of the
following conditions apply:
         (a)   The information is directly related to a request for economic
development assistance that is to be provided or administered under any
provision of R.C. Chapter 715, 725, 1724 or 1728 or R.C. §§ 701.07, 3735.67 to
3735.70, 5709.40 to 5709.43, 5709.61 to 5709.69, 5709.73 to 5709.75 or 5709.77
to 5709.81, or that involves public infrastructure improvements or the
extension of utility services that are directly related to an economic
development project.
         (b)   A unanimous quorum of the public body determines, by a roll call
vote, that the executive session is necessary to protect the interests of the
applicant or the possible investment or expenditure of public funds to be made
in connection with the economic development project.
      (9)   If a public body holds an executive session to consider any of the
matters listed in divisions (F)(2) through (F)(8) above, the motion and vote to
hold that executive session shall state which one or more of the approved
matters listed in those divisions are to be considered at the executive
session; or
      (10)   A public body specified in division (c) of the definition of
“public body” in this section shall not hold an executive session when meeting
for the purposes specified in that division (c).
   (G)   A resolution, rule or formal action of any kind is invalid unless
adopted in an open meeting of the public body. A resolution, rule or formal
action adopted in an open meeting that results from deliberations in a meeting
not open to the public is invalid unless the deliberations were for a purpose
specifically authorized in division (F) of this section and conducted at an
executive session held in compliance with this section. A resolution, rule or
formal action adopted in an open meeting is invalid if the public body that
adopted the resolution, rule or formal action violated division (E) of this
section.
   (H)   (1)   Any person may bring an action to enforce this section. An
action under this division (H)(1) shall be brought within two years after the
date of the alleged violation or threatened violation. Upon proof of a
violation or threatened violation of this section in an action brought by any
person, the court of common pleas shall issue an injunction to compel the
members of the public body to comply with its provisions.
      (2)   (a)   If the court of common pleas issues an injunction pursuant to
division (H)(1) of this section, the court shall order the public body that it
enjoins to pay a civil forfeiture of $500 to the party that sought the
injunction and shall award to that party all court costs and, subject to
reduction as described in this division (H)(2), reasonable attorney’s fees. The
court, in its discretion, may reduce an award of attorney’s fees to the party
that sought the injunction or not award attorney’s fees to that party if the
court determines both of the following:
            1.   That, based on the ordinary application of statutory law and
case law as it existed at the time of violation or threatened violation that
was the basis of the injunction, a well-informed public body reasonably would
believe that the public body was not violating or threatening to violate this
section; and
            2.   That a well-informed public body reasonably would believe that
the conduct or threatened conduct that was the basis of the injunction would
serve the public policy that underlies the authority that is asserted as
permitting that conduct or threatened conduct.
         (b)   If the court of common pleas does not issue an injunction
pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section and the court determines at that
time that the bringing of the action was frivolous conduct, as defined in R.C.
§ 2323.51(A), the court shall award to the public body all court costs and
reasonable attorney’s fees, as determined by the court.
      (3)   Irreparable harm and prejudice to the party that sought the
injunction shall be conclusively and irrebuttably presumed upon proof of a
violation or threatened violation of this section.
      (4)   A member of a public body who knowingly violates an injunction
issued pursuant to division (H)(1) of this section may be removed from office
by an action brought in the court of common pleas for that purpose by the
prosecuting attorney or the attorney general.
(R.C. § 121.22)
Statutory reference:
   Application of open meetings and exceptions to specific entities, see R.C. §
121.22(D), (E) and (J)
§ 30.03 WEAPONS PROHIBITED ON VILLAGE-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   The possession, control or conveyance of deadly weapons or dangerous
ordnances into, onto or over all village-owned property in and upon which
employees of the village and/or members of the general public have occasion to
enter, to the extent allowed by law is prohibited.
   (B)   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator is hereby
authorized and directed to prepare and post conspicuous notices at the points
of ingress to such premises clearly setting forth said prohibition.
   (C)   The prohibition established herein shall not apply to employees of the
village and other municipal, state or federal employees or agents who, pursuant
to their job duties, are required to carry deadly weapons or dangerous
ordnances. The exemption contained in this section shall only apply when such
individuals are performing the official duties of their respective offices or
employment.
(Ord. O-07-2004, passed 5-4-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.04 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Upon request by any person and subject to division (H) of this
section, all public records responsive to the request shall be promptly
prepared and made available for inspection to the requester at all reasonable
times during regular business hours. Subject to division (H) of this section,
upon request by any person, a public office or person responsible for public
records shall make copies of the requested public record available to the
requestor at cost and within a reasonable period of time. If a public record
contains information that is exempt from the duty to permit public inspection
or to copy the public record, the public office or the person responsible for
the public record shall make available all of the information within the public
record that is not exempt. When making that public record available for public
inspection or copying that public record, the public office or the person
responsible for the public record shall notify the requester of any redaction
or make the redaction plainly visible. A redaction shall be deemed a denial of
a request to inspect or copy the redacted information, except if federal or
state law authorizes or requires a public office to make the redaction.
   (B)   To facilitate broader access to public records, a public office or the
person responsible for public records shall organize and maintain public
records in a manner that they can be made available for inspection or copying
in accordance with this section. A public office also shall have available a
copy of its current records retention schedule at a location readily available
to the public. If a requester makes an ambiguous or overly broad request or has
difficulty in making a request for copies or inspection of public records under
this section, such that the public office or the person responsible for the
requested public record cannot reasonably identify what public records are
being requested, the public office or the person responsible for the requested
public record may deny the request but shall provide the requester with an
opportunity to revise the request by informing the requester of the manner in
which records are maintained by the public office and accessed in the ordinary
course of the public office’s or person’s duties.
   (C)   If a request is ultimately denied, in part or in whole, the public
office or the person responsible for the requested public record shall provide
the requester with an explanation, including legal authority, setting forth why
the request was denied. If the initial request was provided in writing, the
explanation also shall be provided to the requester in writing. The explanation
shall not preclude the public office or the person responsible for the
requested public record from relying upon additional reasons or legal authority
in defending an action commenced under R.C. § 149.43(C).
   (D)   Unless specifically required or authorized by state or federal law or
in accordance this section, no public office or person responsible for public
records may limit or condition the availability of public records by requiring
disclosure of the requester’s identity or the intended use of the requested
public record. Any requirement that the requester disclose the requester’s
identity or the intended use of the requested public record constitutes a
denial of the request.
   (E)   A public office or person responsible for public records may ask a
requester to make the request in writing, may ask for the requester’s identity
and may inquire about the intended use of the information requested, but may do
so only after disclosing to the requester that a written request is not
mandatory and that the requester may decline to reveal the requester’s identity
or the intended use and when a written request or disclosure of the identity or
intended use would benefit the requester by enhancing the ability of the public
office or person responsible for public records to identify, locate or deliver
the public records sought by the requester.
   (F)   If any person requests a copy of a public record in accordance with
this section, the public office or person responsible for the public record may
require the requester to pay in advance the cost involved in providing the copy
of the public record in accordance with the choice made by the requester under
this division. The public office or the person responsible for the public
record shall permit the requester to choose to have the public record
duplicated upon paper, upon the same medium upon which the public office or
person responsible for the public record keeps it, or upon any other medium
upon which the public office or person responsible for the public record
determines that it reasonably can be duplicated as an integral part of the
normal operations of the public office or person responsible for the public
record. When the requester makes a choice under this division, the public
office or person responsible for the public record shall provide a copy of it
in accordance with the choice made by the requester. Nothing in this section
requires a public office or person responsible for the public record to allow
the requester of a copy of the public record to make the copies of the public
record.
   (G)   (1)   Upon a request made in accordance with this section and subject
to division (F) of this section, a public office or person responsible for
public records shall transmit a copy of a public record to any person by United
States mail or by any other means of delivery or transmission within a
reasonable period of time after receiving the request for the copy. The public
office or person responsible for the public record may require the person
making the request to pay in advance the cost of postage if the copy is
transmitted by United States mail or the cost of delivery if the copy is
transmitted other than by United States mail, and to pay in advance the costs
incurred for other supplies used in the mailing, delivery or transmission.
      (2)   Any public office may adopt a policy and procedures that it will
follow in transmitting, within a reasonable period of time after receiving a
request, copies of public records by United States mail or by any other means
of delivery or transmission pursuant to this division (G). A public office that
adopts a policy and procedures under this division (G) shall comply with them
in performing its duties under that division.
      (3)   In any policy and procedures adopted under this division (G), the
following apply.
         (a)   A public office may limit the number of records requested by a
person that the office will physically deliver by United States mail or by
another delivery service to ten per month, unless the person certifies to the
office in writing that the person does not intend to use or forward the
requested records, or the information contained in them, for commercial
purposes.
         (b)   A public office that chooses to provide some or all of its
public records on a web site that is fully accessible to and searchable by
members of the public at all times, other than during acts of God outside the
public office’s control or maintenance, and that charges no fee to search,
access, download or otherwise receive records provided on the web site, may
limit to ten per month the number of records requested by a person that the
office will deliver in a digital format, unless the requested records are not
provided on the website and unless the person certifies to the office in
writing that the person does not intend to use or forward the requested
records, or the information contained in them, for commercial purposes.
         (c)   For purposes of this division (G), COMMERCIAL shall be narrowly
construed and does not include reporting or gathering news, reporting or
gathering information to assist citizen oversight or understanding the
operation or activities of government, or nonprofit educational research.
   (H)   A public office or person responsible for public records is not
required to permit a person who is incarcerated pursuant to a criminal
conviction or a juvenile adjudication to inspect or to obtain a copy of any
public record concerning a criminal investigation or prosecution or concerning
what would be a criminal investigation or prosecution if the subject of the
investigation or prosecution were an adult, unless the request to inspect or to
obtain a copy of the record is for the purpose of acquiring information that is
subject to release as a public record under this section and the judge who
imposed the sentence or made the adjudication with respect to the person, or
the judge’s successor in office, finds that the information sought in the
public record is necessary to support what appears to be a justiciable claim of
the person.
   (I)   (1)   Upon written request made and signed by a journalist, a public
office or person responsible for public records, having custody of the records
of the agency employing a specified designated public service worker, as
defined in R.C. § 149.43, shall disclose to the journalist the address of the
actual personal residence of the designated public service worker and, if the
designated public service worker’s spouse, former spouse or child is employed
by a public office, the name and address of the employer of the designated
public service worker’s spouse, former spouse or child. The request shall
include the journalist’s name and title and the name and address of the
journalist’s employer and shall state that disclosure of the information sought
would be in the public interest.
      (2)   Division (I)(1) of this section also applies to journalist requests
for:
         (a)   Customer information maintained by a municipally owned or
operated public utility, other than social security numbers and any private
financial information such as credit reports, payment methods, credit card
numbers and bank account information.
         (b)   Information about minors involved in a school vehicle accident
as provided in division R.C. § 149.43(A)(1)(gg), other than personal
information as defined in R.C. § 149.45.
      (3)   As used in this division (I), JOURNALIST means a person engaged in,
connected with or employed by any news medium, including a newspaper, magazine,
press association, news agency or wire service, a radio or television station
or a similar medium, for the purpose of gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing or disseminating information for the general public.
   (J)   Upon a request made by a victim, victim’s attorney or victim’s
representative, as that term is used in R.C. § 2930.02, a public office or
person responsible for public records shall transmit a copy of a depiction of
the victim as described in R.C. § 149.43(A)(1)(ii) to the victim, victim’s
attorney or victim’s representative.
   (K)   (1)   To ensure that all employees of public offices are appropriately
educated about a public office’s obligations under this section, all elected
officials or their appropriate designees shall attend training approved by the
Attorney General as provided in R.C. § 109.43. A future official may satisfy
the requirements of this division by attending the training before taking
office; provided that the future official may not send a designee in the future
official’s place.
      (2)   All public offices shall adopt a public records policy in
compliance with this section for responding to public records requests. In
adopting a public records policy under this division, a public office may
obtain guidance from the model public records policy developed and provided to
the public office by the Attorney General under R.C. § 109.43. Except as
otherwise provided in this section or R.C. § 149.43, the policy may not limit
the number of public records that the public office will make available to a
single person, may not limit the number of public records that it will make
available during a fixed period of time and may not establish a fixed period of
time before it will respond to a request for inspection or copying of public
records, unless that period is less than eight hours.
      (3)   The public office shall distribute the public records policy
adopted by the public office under this division (K) to the employee of the
public office who is the records custodian or records manager or otherwise has
custody of the records of that office. The public office shall require that
employee to acknowledge receipt of the copy of the public records policy. The
public office shall create a poster that describes its public records policy
and shall post the poster in a conspicuous place in the public office and in
all locations where the public office has branch offices. The public office may
post its public records policy on the internet web site of the public office if
the public office maintains an internet web site. A public office that has
established a manual or handbook of its general policies and procedures for all
employees of the public office shall include the public records policy of the
public office in the manual or handbook.
(R.C. § 149.43(B), (E))
Statutory reference:
   Availability and scope of public records; mandamus action to compel
disclosure, see R.C. § 149.43
   Competitive bidding, public inspection and copying prohibited, see R.C. §
125.071
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator
   
31.02   Assistant Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.03   Village Fiscal Officer
   
31.04   Water meter reader; gasoline allowance
   
31.05   Chief Operator of Water and Sewer Department
§ 31.01 WATER AND SEWER SUPERINTENDENT/VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   In accordance with R.C. § 735.271, there is hereby created the
position of Village Administrator. The salary of the Village Administrator
shall be payable according to previously established practices and principles
of the village.
   (B)   The Village Administrator shall have those powers, duties and
functions as provided by the general laws of the state; and in addition, shall
have the following powers, duties and functions:
      (1)   Manage, conduct and control the water works and sewer plant for the
village, furnish supplies of water and sewer disposal, and collect all water
and sewer rents;
      (2)   Supervise the improvement and repair of streets, avenues, alleys,
lands, lanes, bridges, sidewalks, sewers, drains, ditches, culverts, streams
and water courses, as well as the lighting, sprinkling and cleaning of all
streets, alleys, and public buildings and places within the village; and
      (3)   Perform such other powers, duties and functions authorized by R.C.
§ 735.273 and authorization by the Village Council.
   (C)   The positions of Water and Sewer Superintendent, and Village
Administrator are hereby combined. The position shall hereafter be known as the
Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator.
   (D)   The individual holding the combined position of Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator shall be permitted to drive a village-
owned vehicle to and from work and for commute purposes.
(Ord. O-15-94, passed - -1994; Ord. O-22-2006, passed 12-20-2006)
§ 31.02 ASSISTANT CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The position of full-time Assistant Clerk-Treasurer be and hereby is
created.
   (B)   The full-time Assistant Clerk-Treasurer shall work a minimum of 37-1/
2 hours per week, as directed by the Mayor and Clerk of the village.
(Ord. O-6-95, passed - -1995)
§ 31.03 VILLAGE FISCAL OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Village Fiscal Officer. The
compensation of the Fiscal Officer shall be as established from time to time,
by village ordinance.
   (B)   The Fiscal Officer shall have those powers, duties and functions as
provided by law for the Village Clerk-Treasurer, together with any other duties
consistent with the nature of the office that are provided by municipal
ordinance, including those which are currently provided by ordinance or
resolution for the Village Clerk, Treasurer or Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   The person appointed the Fiscal Officer shall work such time per week
as is necessary to fulfill the duties and responsibilities of the office. No
hours worked shall be considered overtime hours nor be compensable as overtime,
and this position shall be designated an executive or administrative position
exempt from any state or federal requirement of overtime payment.
   (D)   The Fiscal Officer need not be an elector of the village or reside in
the village, and this section specifically approves the Fiscal Officer’s
residence outside of the village.
(Ord. O-16-2005, passed 8-2-2005)
§ 31.04 WATER METER READER; GASOLINE ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a monthly gasoline allowance for the water
meter reader of the village, as an additional stipend to reimburse him or her
for the use of his or her own personal automobile to perform his or her duties,
said monthly gasoline allowance to consist of one fill-up per month for the
automobile used by his or her for work from the gasoline supply tanks owned and
operated by the village.
   (B)   The monthly gas allowance stipend shall be allowed as reimbursement in
addition to the hourly compensation currently being paid to said water meter
reader.
(Ord. O-02-2003, passed 2-18-2003)
§ 31.05 CHIEF OPERATOR OF WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby created the position of Chief Operator within the Water and
Sewer Department of the village, with the following job description. The Chief
Operator of the wastewater treatment plant will serve as a crew leader of other
operators and laborers working at the wastewater treatment plant. The Chief
Operator will report to and work closely with the Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator to identify projects at the wastewater
treatment plant and utilize available manpower to complete them. The Chief
Operator will plan daily work schedules and delegate duties to subordinates to
ensure that all operational and maintenance activities at the wastewater
treatment plant are completed in a manner consistent with Ohio EPA requirements
and to the satisfaction of the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator.
(Ord. O-09-2018, passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Water and Sewer Department
   
32.02   Overtime for police and fire employees
Fire Department
   
32.15   Fire Chief
   
32.16   Geographic restrictions for Volunteer Fire Department
Police Department
   
32.30   Residency requirements
   
32.31   Uniform clothing allowance
   
32.32   Sergeant
   
32.33   Fees and expenses charged with services performed
   
32.34   Fifth full-time police officer
   
32.35   Corporal
   
32.36   Lexipol Police Department Policy Manual
Volunteer Peace Officers’ Dependents Fund Board
   
32.45   Definitions
   
32.46   Membership, terms of membership and vacancy
   
32.47   First meeting; selection of chairperson and secretary; duties of
secretary
   
32.48   Rules
   
32.49   Legal advisor
   
32.50   Maintenance of fund; initial premiums
   
32.51   Basic capital account; contributions
   
32.52   Failure to pay premium
   
32.53   Payments to volunteer peace officers who are totally and permanently
disabled; death benefits
   
32.54   Determination of validity of claims
   
32.55   Nature of right to benefit
   
32.56   Formal actions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Water and Sewer Department of the village is reorganized and
thereby established the following positions within said Department: Water and
Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator, Operator, Laborer I, Laborer II and
Laborer III.
   (B)   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator shall be
appointed by the Village Council after a review of qualifications necessary and
appropriate to operate the water and sewer treatment plants, and shall possess
the necessary administrative capabilities and qualifications to efficiently
administer the Water and Sewer Department.
   (C)   The following description of duties are hereby established as duties
necessary by employees of the Water and Sewer Department to possess in one or
more quantities:
Description of Duty Points
Description of Duty                                                    Points
Exercise valves                                                        2
Flush hydrants                                                         2
Handle sewer backup                                                    3
Have a thorough knowledge of backflow prevention and cross- connection 2
Install meters and outside readers                                     3
Install water hydrants and valves                                      4
Locate underground water and sewer lines                               2
Make water taps                                                        2
Operate a backhoe                                                      3
Operate a skidloader                                                   1
Operate all phases of wastewater plant                                 5
Operate all phases of water plant                                      5
Perform weekend plant checks                                           4
Perform bacteria sampling                                              1
Perform lab analysis at waste water plant                              4
Perform lab analysis at water plant                                    3
Possess a CDL license                                                  1
Repair water main breaks                                               4
Replace water services                                                 4
Troubleshoot lift stations                                             4
Welding                                                                1
 
   (D)   In order to qualify as a Laborer I within the newly reorganized Water
and Sewer Department, an employee hired must, during their six-month
probationary period, acquire and maintain the ability to perform all or some of
the above duties to a satisfactory proficiency level as determined by the Water
and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator. A Laborer I shall possess and
maintain 0-39 points from the above description of duties.
   (E)   A Laborer I who obtains and maintains 40-49 points as described in the
above description of duties to a satisfactory proficiency level as determined
by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator shall, upon
recommendation by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator to
Village Council and approval thereof by a majority vote, be elevated to the
position of Laborer II and shall maintain the position of Laborer II as long as
he or she is able to continue to perform duties consisting of 40-49 points in a
satisfactory proficiency manner as determined by the Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator.
   (F)   A Laborer II who obtains and maintains 40-49 points as described in
the above description of duties to a satisfactory proficiency level as
determined by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator shall,
upon recommendation by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator
to Village Council and approval thereof by a majority vote, be elevated to the
position of Laborer III and shall maintain the position of Laborer III as long
as he or she is able to continue to perform duties consisting of 50 or more
points in a satisfactory proficiency manner as determined by the Water and
Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator.
   (G)   Any employee holding the qualification of Laborer III who obtains a
water or sanitary sewer license, upon recommendation by the Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator and approval by the Village Council by
majority vote, shall be elevated to the position of Operator and shall be paid
accordingly.
   (H)   In addition to the rates of pay, employees of the Water and Sewer
Department of the village shall be paid additional monies for each water and
sewer license obtained, as previously established and provided for by village
ordinances.
(Ord. O-09-2000, passed 4-27-2000)
§ 32.02 OVERTIME FOR POLICE AND FIRE EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   For police officers and fire protection personnel, a 28 consecutive
day work period is adopted for overtime purposes.
   (B)   A police officer will become entitled to overtime pay for working in
excess of 171 hours in a 28-day consecutive day work period.
   (C)   A fire protection employee will become entitled to overtime pay for
working in excess of 212 hours in a 28 consecutive day work period.
   (D)   The Chief of Police and Fire Chief will be responsible for determining
the work schedules of employees in each of their departments.
(Ord. O-12-2022, passed 3-1-2022)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The position of Fire Chief, as a full-time village employee, is hereby
created.
   (B)   The job description for the new position of Fire Chief will be
approved by the Mayor, in consultation with the Village Solicitor/Law Director.
(Ord. O-39-2021, passed 1-18-2022)
§ 32.16 GEOGRAPHIC RESTRICTIONS FOR VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The residency requirements for the Fire Department are hereby modified and
the Fire Department is authorized to take applications from qualified personnel
with fire and EMS credentials who reside within a ten-mile radius from the
intersection of Second Street and North Wooster Avenue in the village, and the
Fire Department is hereby authorized to take applications from qualified
personnel who reside within this ten-mile radius.
(Ord. O-19-2016, passed 7-19-2016)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.30 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   Members of the auxiliary police units shall be residents of the state.
(Ord. O-24-93, passed 7-6-1993)
§ 32.31 UNIFORM CLOTHING ALLOWANCE.
   (A)   The uniform clothing allowance for all full-time members of the Police
Department is $750 per year.
   (B)   Payment of this uniform clothing allowance shall be in accordance with
generally accepted accounting standards and rules and regulations established
by the Police Department and the Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. O-03-2020, passed 2- -2020)
§ 32.32 SERGEANT.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the Police Department the position of
Police Sergeant.
   (B)   The duties of the Police Sergeant shall be that the Sergeant shall be
responsible for the police auxiliary program, scheduling all auxiliary officers
and reporting to the Chief of Police on any and all changes dealing with the
auxiliary program. The Sergeant shall also be responsible for the scheduling of
officers to provide 24-hour coverage within the village, and shall be
responsible for the operation of the Police Department in the absence of the
Chief of Police. These duties may be changed from time to time as established
by the Mayor and the Chief of Police of the village.
(Ord. O-15-98, passed - -1998)
§ 32.33 FEES AND EXPENSES CHARGED WITH SERVICES PERFORMED.
   (A)   The Police Chief, in the performance of services set forth
hereinafter, shall charge the fees and expenses provided, which fees and
expenses shall be taxed to other departments or agencies or courts for which
the services are performed.
   (B)   These services and the fees therefor are as permitted and provided for
by R.C. § 737.19.
   (C)   The Police Department shall tax the following fees and expenses as
costs, to be collected from the agency for which the service is provided, and
paid to the General Fund of the village:
      (1)   Serving and making return of each of the following:
         (a)   Order to commit to jail, order on jailer for prisoner or order
of ejectment, including copies to complete service: $1 for each defendant named
therein;
         (b)   Search warrant or warrant of arrest, for each person named in
the writ: $5;
         (c)   Writ of attachment of property, except for purpose of
garnishment: $20;
         (d)   Writ of attachment for the purpose of garnishment: $5;
         (e)   Writ of possession or restitution: $20;
         (f)   Attachment for contempt, for each person named in the write: $3;
         (g)   Writ of replevin: $20;
         (h)   Summons and writs, subpoena, venire and notice to garnishee,
including copies to complete service: $3 for each person named therein;
         (i)   Execution against property or person: $0.80 and 6% of all money
thus collected; and
         (j)   Any other writ, order or notice required by law, for each person
named therein, including copies to complete service: $3 for the first name and
$0.50 for each additional name.
      (2)   Mileage for the distance actually and necessarily traveled in
serving and returning any of the preceding writs, orders and notices: $0.50 for
the first mile and for each additional mile, $0.20;
      (3)   For attending a criminal case during the trial or hearing and
having charge of prisoners, each case: $2.50, but, when so acting, such
constable shall not be entitled to a witness fee if called upon to testify;
      (4)   For attending civil court during a jury trial, each case: $2;
      (5)   For attending civil court during a trial without jury, each case:
$1.50;
      (6)   The actual amount paid solely for the transportation, meals and
lodging of prisoners, and for the moving and storage of goods and the care of
animals taken on any legal process, such expense shall be specifically itemized
on the back of the writs and sworn to;
      (7)   For summoning and swearing appraisers, each case: $2;
      (8)   For advertising property for sale, by posting, taken on any legal
process: $1; and
      (9)   For taking and making return of any bond required by law: $0.80.
   (D)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, if any comparable fee or
expense specified under R.C. §§ 311.17 or 737.19 is increased to an amount
greater than that set forth in this section, then the Village Council may, by
ordinance, require that the amount taxed as costs and fees under this section
equal the amount specified under said increased amounts.
(Ord. O-20-97, passed - -1997)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal court costs, see R.C. § 1901.26
§ 32.34 FIFTH FULL-TIME POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   There is hereby created a fifth full-time police officer position.
   (B)   The duties of the fifth full-time member of the Police Department
shall be similar to that of other full-time police officers of the Police
Department.
   (C)   The rate of pay shall be as established by the prior pay ordinances.
(Ord. O-02-2020, passed 2- -2020)
§ 32.35 CORPORAL.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the Police Department the position of
Police Corporal, up to two positions of which may be filled from time to time
as the need arises.
   (B)   The duties of the Police Corporal shall include the duties of Police
Sergeant when the Department does not have a presently serving Sergeant, and
when it does, the duties shall be those delegated to the Police Corporal by the
Police Chief.
(Ord. O-11-2024, passed 5-7-2024)
§ 32.36 LEXIPOL POLICE DEPARTMENT POLICY MANUAL.
   (A)   The Lexipol, LLC Police Department Policy Manual is adopted for use by
the Strasburg Police Department, both in its current form and as occasionally
updated by Lexipol, LLC.
   (B)   The Police Chief acting under the direction of the Mayor, shall be the
person principally responsible for assuring that the Police Department Policy
Manual is adhered to in the operation of the Police Department.
   (C)   Where there is conflict between the Ohio Revised Code or the Village
of Strasburg Codified Ordinances and the Police Department Policy Manual, the
Ohio Revised Code or the Village of Strasburg Codified Ordinances shall
prevail.
(Ord. O-12-2024, passed 6-4-2024)
VOLUNTEER PEACE OFFICERS’ DEPENDENTS FUND BOARD
§ 32.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Village Volunteer Peace Officers’ Departments Fund Board.
   KILLED IN THE LINE OF DUTY. Either of the following:
      (1)   Death in the line of duty; or
      (2)   Death from injury sustained in the line of duty, including heart
attack or other fatal injury or illness caused while in the line of duty.
   TOTALLY AND PERMANENTLY DISABLED. Unable to engage in any substantial
gainful employment for a period of not less than 12 months by reason of a
medically determinable physical impairment that is permanent or presumed to be
permanent.
   VOLUNTEER PEACE OFFICER. Any person who is employed as a police officer,
sheriff’s deputy, constable or deputy marshal in a part-time, reserve or
volunteer capacity by a county sheriff’s department or the police department of
a municipal corporation, township, township police district or joint police
district and is not a member of the Public Employees Retirement Systems, Ohio
Police and Fire Pension Fund, State Highway Patrol Retirement System or the
Cincinnati Retirement System.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.46 MEMBERSHIP, TERMS OF MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCY.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of the following members:
      (1)   Two members elected by the Village Council;
      (2)   Two members elected by the volunteer peace officers of the Police
Department; and
      (3)   One member elected by the members pursuant to divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) of this section. The member must be an elector of the village, but not a
public employee, member of the Village Council or village peace officer.
   (B)   The term of office of a member begins on January 1 and shall be for
one year.
   (C)   (1)   The election of the members specified in division (A)(1) of this
section shall be held each year not earlier than November 1 and not later than
the second Monday in December. The election of the member specified in division
(A)(3) of this section shall be held each year on or before December 31.
      (2)   The members specified in division (A)(2) of this section shall be
elected on or before the second Monday in December, as follows.
         (a)   The secretary of the Board shall give notice of the election by
posting it in a conspicuous place at the headquarters of the Police Department.
Between 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on the day designated, each person eligible to
vote shall send in writing the name of the two persons eligible to be elected
to the Board who are the person’s choices.
         (b)   All votes cast at the election shall be counted and recorded by
the Board, which shall announce the result. The two persons receiving the
highest number of votes are elected. If there is a tie vote for any two
persons, the election shall be decided by lot or in any other way agreed on by
the persons for whom the tie vote was cast.
   (D)   Any vacancy occurring on the Board shall be filled at a special
election called by the Board’s secretary.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.47 FIRST MEETING; SELECTION OF CHAIRPERSON AND SECRETARY; DUTIES OF
SECRETARY.
   (A)   The Board shall meet promptly after election of the Board’s members
and organize. The Board shall select from among its members a chairperson and a
secretary.
   (B)   The secretary of the Board shall keep a complete record of the Board’s
proceedings, which shall be maintained as a permanent file.
   (C)   Board members shall serve without compensation.
   (D)   The Village Council shall provide sufficient meeting space and
supplies for the Board to carry out its duties.
   (E)   The secretary shall submit all of the following to the Ohio Director
of Commerce:
      (1)   The name and address of each Board member and an indication of the
group or authority that elected the member;
      (2)   The names of the chairperson and secretary; and
      (3)   A certificate indicating the current assessed property valuation of
the village that is prepared by the Village Fiscal Officer.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.48 RULES.
   (A)   The Board may adopt rules as necessary for handling and processing
claims for benefits.
   (B)   The Board shall perform such other duties as are necessary to
implement this subchapter.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.49 LEGAL ADVISOR.
   Pursuant to R.C. Chapter 143, the County Prosecuting Attorney shall serve as
legal advisor to the Board.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.50 MAINTENANCE OF FUND; INITIAL PREMIUMS.
   (A)   The Volunteer Peace Officers’ Dependents Fund is maintained in the
state treasury. All investment earnings of the Fund are collected by the State
Treasurer and placed to the credit of the Fund.
   (B)   The village shall pay to the State Treasurer, to the credit of the
Fund, an initial premium pursuant to R.C. Chapter 143.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.51 BASIC CAPITAL ACCOUNT; CONTRIBUTIONS.
   The total of all initial premiums collected by the State Treasurer under
R.C. § 143.06 is the basic capital account of the Volunteer Peace Officers’
Dependents Fund. No further contributions are required of the village until
claims against the fund have reduced it to 95% or less of its basic capital
account. In that event, the Director of Commerce shall cause the following
assessments, based on current property valuation, to be made and certified to
the Village Council according to R.C. § 143.07.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.52 FAILURE TO PAY PREMIUM.
   (A)   (1)   If the village does not pay a premium as provided by R.C. §
143.06, the Director of Commerce will certify the failure as an assessment
against the village to the County Auditor. The County Auditor will withhold the
amount of the assessment, together with interest at the rate of 6% from the due
date of the premium, from the next ensuing tax settlement due the village and
pay the amount to the State Treasurer to the credit of the Volunteer Peace
Officers’ Dependents Fund.
      (2)   If the secretary of the Board fails to submit to the director a
certificate of the current assessed property valuation in accordance with R.C.
§ 143.03, the director shall use R.C. § 143.06(B)(5) as a basis for the
assessment.
   (B)   If the village does not pay the assessment provided in R.C. § 143.07
within 45 days after notice, the director will proceed with collection in
accordance with R.C. § 143.08(A).
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.53 PAYMENTS TO VOLUNTEER PEACE OFFICERS WHO ARE TOTALLY AND PERMANENTLY
DISABLED; DEATH BENEFITS.
   (A)   A volunteer peace officer who is totally and permanently disabled as a
result of discharging the duties of a volunteer peace officer shall receive a
benefit from the Volunteer Peace Officers’ Dependents Fund according to R.C. §
143.09(A).
   (B)   Regardless if whether the volunteer peace officer receives a benefit
under R.C. § 143.09(A), death benefits shall be paid from the Fund to the
surviving spouse or dependent children of a volunteer peace officer who is
killed in the line of duty.
   (C)   An individual eligible for benefits payable under R.C. § 143.09 shall
file a claim for benefits with the Board on a form provided by the Board.
Information shall be submitted with the claim as specified in R.C. § 143.09(C).
   (D)   All claimants shall certify that neither the claimant nor the person
on whose behalf the claim is filed qualifies for other benefits from any of the
following based on the officers service as a volunteer peace officer: the
public employees retirement system, Ohio Police and Fire Pension Fund, State
Highway Patrol Retirement System, Cincinnati Retirement System or the Ohio
Public Safety Officers Death Benefit Fund.
   (E)   Initial claims shall be filed with the Board. Thereafter, on request
of the claimant or the Board, claims may be transferred to a board near the
claimant’s current residence, if the boards concerned agree to the transfer.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.54 DETERMINATION OF VALIDITY OF CLAIMS.
   (A)   (1)   Not later than five days after receipt of a claim for benefits,
the Board shall meet and determine the validity of the claim. If the Board
determines that the claim is valid, it shall make a determination of the amount
due and certify its determination to the Director of Commerce for payment. The
certificate shall show the name and address of the Board, the name and address
of each beneficiary, the amount to be received by or on behalf of each
beneficiary, and the names and address of the person to whom payments are to be
made.
      (2)   If the Board determines that a claimant is ineligible for benefits,
the Board shall deny the claim and issue to the claimant a copy of its order.
   (B)   The Board may make a continuing order for monthly payments to a
claimant for a period not exceeding three months from the date of the
determination. The determination may be modified after issuance to reflect any
changes in the claimant’s eligibility. If no changes occur at the end of the
three-month period, the director may provide for payment if the Board certifies
that the original certificate is continued for an additional three-month
period.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.55 NATURE OF RIGHT TO BENEFIT.
   The right of an individual to benefit under this subchapter and R.C. Chapter
143 shall not be subject to execution, garnishment, attachment, the operation
of bankruptcy or insolvency laws or other process of law whatsoever, and shall
be unassignable except as specifically provided in this subchapter, R.C.
Chapter 143, and R.C. §§ 3105.171, 3105.65 and 3115.501 and R.C. Chapters 3119,
3121, 3123 and 3125.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
§ 32.56 FORMAL ACTIONS.
   Council finds and declares that all formal actions concerning and relating
to the adoption of this subchapter occurred in an open meeting of Council or
its committees, in compliance with law.
(Ord. O-33-2016, passed 12-28-2016)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Recovery of service fees for deployment of public safety services
   
33.02   Political subdivision cooperative purchasing
   
33.03   Lodging tax
Fees and Charges
   
33.15   Checks returned because of insufficient funds
   
33.16   Video service provider fee
   
33.17   Billing rates for fire protection and emergency/rescue services
   
33.18   Ambulances services
Funds
   
33.30   Strasburg-Franklin Park Capital Improvement Trust Fund
   
33.31   Underground Storage Tank (UST) Fund
   
33.32   Sewer System Improvement Fund
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 RECOVERY OF SERVICE FEES FOR DEPLOYMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES.
   (A)   The safety services departments shall initiate service fees for the
delivery of safety services department services, personnel, supplies and
equipment to the scene of motor vehicle accidents. The rate of the service fees
shall be that which is the usual, customary and reasonable costs (UCR), which
includes any services, personnel, supplies and equipment and may vary based on
the actual costs of the individual accident.
   (B)   The service fees shall be charged to the responsible or at-fault
driver, initially filed to their motor vehicle insurance, representing an add-
on-cost of the claim for negligent driving damages of the vehicles, property
and/or injuries. The claim costs shall be filed to the insurance company, the
owner of a vehicle, owner of property or other responsible parties.
   (C)   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator and/or Fiscal
Officer may make rules or regulations, and from time to time may amend, revoke
or add rules and regulations, relating to this section as they may deem
necessary or expedient in respect to billing for these fees or the collection
thereof.
   (D)   All amounts collected as a result of this section shall be placed into
a fund as established by the Fiscal Officer to be used exclusively for
personnel, supplies and equipment for the safety services departments.
(Ord. O-17-2009, passed 1-5-2010)
§ 33.02 POLITICAL SUBDIVISION COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   (A)   The Village Council hereby requests authority in the name of the
village to participate in state contracts which the Department of
Administrative Services, Office of State Purchasing has entered into for the
purchase of supplies, services, equipment and certain materials pursuant to
R.C. § 125.04.
   (B)   The Mayor and Village Clerk are hereby authorized to agree in the name
of the village to be bound by all contract terms and conditions as the
Department of Administrative Service, Office of State Purchasing prescribes.
Such terms and conditions may include a reasonable fee to cover the
administrative costs which the Department of Administrative Services incurs as
a result of the village’s participation in a contract. Further, the Mayor and
Village Clerk does hereby agree to be bound by all such terms and conditions.
   (C)   The Mayor and Village Clerk is hereby authorized to agree in the name
of the village to directly pay the vendor, under each such state contract in
which it participates, for items it receives pursuant to the contract, and the
Mayor and Village Clerk does hereby agree to directly pay the vendor.
(Ord. O-8-94, passed - -1994)
§ 33.03 LODGING TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 5739.08(A), an additional excise tax of 3% is
imposed on transactions for any lawful purpose by which lodging is to be
furnished by a hotel or to be furnished to transient guests and is in addition
to the tax imposed by R.C. § 5739.02. The additional tax shall be effective
October 1, 2013, and shall be 2% for a period of 24 months, and beginning
October 1, 2015, shall be an additional excise tax of 3%.
   (B)   HOTEL includes, but is not limited to, all establishments under R.C. §
5739.09(G). HOTEL includes, but is not limited to, any establishments kept,
used, maintained, advertised or held out to the public as a place where
sleeping accommodations are offered to guests, in which five or more rooms are
for the accommodation of guests, whether such rooms are in one or several
structures.
   (C)   The owner of the facility, the vendor and all principals,
shareholders, partners or others with ownership interest in the hotel, motel,
bed and breakfast or other facility covered by this section are all jointly and
severally liable for this tax and the duty to file returns with the village.
   (D)   The tax shall be paid monthly and reported on forms as required by the
tax office of the village.
   (E)   The tax shall be imposed commencing on the first day of the month
subsequent to the passage of this section. The tax is owed and collectible at
the time the lodging is furnished regardless of when the price is paid or
negotiated.
   (F)   To the extent that guests supply and the vendor receives and retains a
copy of a certificate that demonstrates that the guest is an employee of any
state, federal government or any political subdivision of any state, and the
guest is staying at the facility for purposes related to their state, federal
or political subdivision duties, no bed or lodging tax shall be paid by those
guests, nor collected by owner or vendor. Unless otherwise excepted by a
provision of this section or a subsequent amendment and to prevent the evasion
of this tax, it is presumed that all lodging furnished by a hotel, motel, bed
and breakfast or other facility that provides any transient accommodations is
subject to this tax until the contrary is established by the entity claiming
the exception by clear and convincing evidence.
   (G)   Without limiting the use of these bed or ledging tax funds, the
revenues generated by this tax can and shall be used for any lawful service or
capital expenditure authorized by the village and, without limiting the
application of this provision, may also be used as follows:
      (1)   For the promotion of the village and local facilities, including,
but not limited to, local museums, historic sites, the downtown of the village
and the town’s historic districts, and historic corridors;
      (2)   The borders of the village for beautification, signage or the
provision of information concerning the available facilities and areas of
interest in the village and tourist oriented business;
      (3)   Beautification or improvement of public property, improvement of
park grounds and bike paths;
      (4)   The Strasburg-Franklin Park, any hiking paths and any other park
area associated within the village;
      (5)   To enhance the shoreline of the Sugar Creek and any of its
tributaries or parks or recreational facilities associated therewith; and/or
      (6)   Special events and any cultural arts, and community organization
activities as approved by the administration of the village or the Village
Council.
   (H)   Transient guests shall be charged this tax and no transient guest
shall refuse to pay this tax. The owner or vendor shall collect the full amount
of this tax on all taxable lodging. No vendor shall fail to collect the full
and exact tax as required by this section.
   (I)   No vendor shall refund, remit or rebate to a transient guest, either
directly or indirectly, any of the tax levied pursuant to this section, or make
in any form of advertising, verbal or otherwise, any statements which might
imply that he or she is absorbing the tax, or paying the tax for the transient
guest by an adjustment of prices, or furnishing lodging at a price including
the tax, or rebating the tax in any other manner.
   (J)   The owner or vendor shall keep and retain all records required by law
and shall file all returns and deposit with the tax office of the village all
forms and monies as required by that department.
   (K)   If the owner or vendor shall fail to file the monthly tax documents as
required or fail to pay the tax monthly, a security deposit equal to the
minimum of $2,500 per month or an amount equal (for each month where either a
return is not filed or the tax not paid) equal to the average monthly tax paid
by the institution in the prior 12 months whichever is greater, shall be paid
by the owner or vendor. Owners, shareholders, principals, partners and all
executives with fiduciary responsibilities shall be jointly and severally
liable for the tax owed and the filing of returns under this section. Interest
at the rate of 18% per annum shall be assessed on all past due obligations. The
return and tax shall be paid by the fifteenth of the month following the month
in which the tax is collected.
   (L)   In addition to any other requirements imposed by this section, a
failure to pay the monthly tax or to file the required returns shall constitute
a minor misdemeanor on the first offense and a misdemeanor of the fourth degree
on all subsequent offenses.
   (M)   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator may, and is
hereby authorized, subject to approval of Council, to enter into an agreement
on behalf of the village with any other municipal corporation for the purpose
of administering the income tax laws of the village, as its agent, and of
providing central collection facilities for the collection of the income tax on
behalf of the village.
(Ord. O-05-2013, passed - -2013)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 33.15 CHECKS RETURNED BECAUSE OF INSUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   A fee of $25 plus reimbursement of any bank fees charged to the village as a
result of checks received for deposit and subsequently being returned to the
village by its depository banks because of non-sufficient funds, or other
reasons caused by the check writer is hereby established in the event a check
is returned NSF or for any other reason by the village depository banks,
currently SSB Community Bank and Unified Bank, the same to be assessed by the
Fiscal Officer against the person or entity who issued said NSF returned check
or any check returned unpaid for any other reason from any depository bank of
the village.
(Ord. O-08-2020, passed - -2020)
§ 33.16 VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE.
   (A)   The Village Council hereby establishes a video service provider fee
that is calculated by applying a video service provider fee percentage of 5% to
the video service provider’s gross revenues as defined in R.C. § 1332.32(B) of
the Video Law, being R.C. Chapter 1332. All video service providers and cable
television operators providing video service in the village shall apply the
video service provider fee percentage against gross revenues as defined in the
Video Law.
   (B)   The video service provider fee shall be paid by each video service
provider providing service in the village on a quarterly basis but not sooner
than 45 days nor later than 60 days after the end of the each calendar quarter.
   (C)   The Mayor is authorized and directed to provide any video service
provider with notice of the video service provider fee percentage as determined
by this Council above, which notice shall be given by certified mail, upon
receipt of notice from such video service provider that it will begin providing
video service in the village pursuant to a state-issued video service
authorization.
(Ord. O-04-2009, passed 3-17-2009)
§ 33.17 BILLING RATES FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY/RESCUE SERVICES.
   The following are authorized as charges submitted for services and materials
expended on fire protection and emergency/rescue calls billed through state
billing:
Emergency/Rescue Services Charge
Emergency/Rescue Services                 Charge
ALS 1 emergency (427)                     $850
ALS 1 non-emergency (426)                 $825
ALS 2 emergency (433)                     $950
BLS emergency (429)                       $800
BLS non-emergency (428)                   $750
Emergency response call - MVA only (ECRM) $400
EMT assist (EA)                           $100
Extra services                            See applicable charge code and cost
Ground mileage (425)                      $22
Landing zone (LZ)                         $250
Paramedic assist (PA)                     $200
Rescue extrication - major                $450
Rescue extrication - minor                $250
Scene safety management (SS)              $250
Specialty care (434)                      $1,200
Fire Response Services                    Charge
Auto/SUV fire                             $350
Semi-tractor/trailer fire                 $1,000
Structure fire response                   $500
Truck fire                                $500
Gear/Equipment Replacement                Charge
Boots                                     $388.50
Coat                                      $1,712.55
Gear cleaning/item                        $300
Gloves                                    $142.06
Helmet                                    $574.33
Nomex hood                                $207.47
Pants                                     $1,244.60
 
(Ord. O-22-2022, passed 5-17-2022)
§ 33.18 AMBULANCES SERVICES.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department is hereby authorized to charge the
following fees for ambulance services provided to residents of the village and
to residents of Franklin Township, as follows:
      (1)   A fee of $375 to each recipient of basic life support services;
      (2)   A fee of $500 to each recipient of advanced life support I
services, when the recipient is transported;
      (3)   A fee of $175 to each recipient of advanced life support I
services, when the services provided result in a non-transport;
      (4)   A fee of $625 to each recipient of advanced life support II
services;
      (5)   Advanced life support I services are defined as any call where any
of the following skills and/or equipment are used:
         (a)   Heart monitor;
         (b)   IV, whether attempted or successful;
         (c)   Advanced airway maneuvers; and
         (d)   Administration of medication, including up to two drugs (oxygen
is considered a drug).
      (6)   Advanced life support II services are defined as any call where any
of the following skills and/or equipment are used:
         (a)   Heart monitor;
         (b)   IV, whether attempted or successful;
         (c)   Advanced airway maneuvers; and
         (d)   Administration of medication, including over two drugs (oxygen
is considered a drug).
      (7)   A fee of $12 per loaded mile to each recipient of any of the above
services.
   (B)   The Volunteer Fire Department is hereby authorized to charge the
following fees for ambulance services provided to non-residents of the village
and to non-residents of Franklin Township as follows:
      (1)   A fee of $375 to each recipient of basic life support services;
      (2)   A fee of $500 to each recipient of advanced life support I
services, when the recipient is transported;
      (3)   A fee of $175 to each recipient of advanced life support I
services, when the services provided result in a non-transport;
      (4)   A fee of $625 to each recipient of advanced life support II
services;
      (5)   Advanced life support I services are defined as any call where any
of the following skills and/or equipment are used:
         (a)   Heart monitor;
         (b)   IV, whether attempted or successful;
         (c)   Advanced airway maneuvers; and
         (d)   Administration of medication, including up to two drugs (oxygen
is considered a drug).
      (6)   Advanced life support II services are defined as any call where any
of the following skills and/or equipment are used:
         (a)   Heart monitor;
         (b)   IV, whether attempted or successful;
         (c)   Advanced airway maneuvers; and
         (d)   Administration of medication, including over two drugs (oxygen
is considered a drug).
      (7)   A fee of $12 per loaded mile to each recipient of any of the above
services.
   (C)   In addition to the above charges, the Volunteer Fire Department is
hereby authorized to assess a medic assist charge of $125 to any cooperating
departments that assess a medic assist charge to the Volunteer Fire Department.
   (D)   In addition to the above changes, the Volunteer Fire Department is
also authorized to assess a fee of $250 for auto extrication services,
including but not limited to use of the Jaws of Life.
   (E)   It is determined that the difference in rates for non-residents of the
village and of Franklin Township is justified due to the fact that residents of
the village and of Franklin Township support said services through payment of
taxes whereas non-residents do not.
   (F)   The Volunteer Fire Department is further authorized to continue their
contract with Smith Ambulance Service, Inc. to provide billing services for the
collection of the above fees and charges. All monies collected shall be
deposited into the Fire Levy Fund, and shall be appropriated for the purpose of
the operation by the Volunteer Fire Department of emergency ambulance service
within the village and Franklin Township, including the payment of any fees
incurred as a result of the above contract.
(Ord. O-07-2016, passed 2-16-2016)
FUNDS
§ 33.30 STRASBURG-FRANKLIN PARK CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT TRUST FUND.
   (A)   The Strasburg-Franklin Park Capital Improvement Trust Fund is
established in accordance with R.C. § 5705.09(H), for the purpose of placing
funds received from governmental and private grants, community and private
contributions, together with any other funds raised, to be used by the village
for improvements to Strasburg-Franklin Park for a community walking/running
track and other capital improvement projects as deemed appropriate by the
village, either now or in the future.
   (B)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer is hereby authorized to deposit monies
received from governmental and private grants, community and private
contributions, and any other fundraising efforts by the village for
improvements to said Strasburg-Franklin Park into said account as they may be
received.
(Ord. O-25-01, passed 1-2-2002)
§ 33.31 UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK (UST) FUND.
   (A)   The Underground Storage Tank (UST) Fund is hereby established to
satisfy the financial responsibility requirements in connection therewith of
the village.
   (B)   Expenditures from the UST Fund can only be made for taking corrective
action and for compensating third parties for bodily injury and property damage
caused by accidental releases arising from the operation of petroleum
underground storage tanks.
(Ord. O-14-94, passed 5- -1994)
§ 33.32 SEWER SYSTEM IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The Sewer System Improvement Fund be and hereby is established, in
accordance with R.C. § 5705.09, for the purpose of placing additional sewer
funds resulting from an increase in sewer rates, for the purpose of the
construction and operation of major capital improvements necessary to the sewer
system of the village.
   (B)   The Village Clerk is hereby authorized to place 25% of all sewer rate
revenues to said Sewer System Improvement Fund as they may be received by said
Village Clerk.
(Ord. O-01-93, passed 1- -1993)
CHAPTER 34: INCOME TAX
Section
   
34.01   Authority to levy tax; purposes of tax; rate
   
34.02   Effective date
   
34.03   Definitions
   
34.04   Income subject to tax for individuals
   
34.05   Collection at source
   
34.06   Income subject to net profit tax
   
34.07   Declaration of estimated tax
   
34.08   Credit for tax paid
   
34.09   Annual return
   
34.10   Penalty, interest, fees and charges
   
34.11   Audit
   
34.12   Rounding
   
34.13   Authority and powers of the Tax Administrator
   
34.14   Confidentiality
   
34.15   Fraud
   
34.16   Opinion of the Tax Administrator
   
34.17   Assessment; appeal based on presumption of delivery
   
34.18   Local Board of Tax Review; appeal to Local Board of Tax Review
   
34.19   Actions to recover; statute of limitations
   
34.20   Adoption of rules
   
34.21   Collection after termination of chapter
   
34.22   Savings clause
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 AUTHORITY TO LEVY TAX; PURPOSES OF TAX; RATE.
   (A)   Authority to levy tax.
      (1)   The tax on income and the withholding tax established by this
section are authorized by Article XVIII, § 3 of the Ohio Constitution. The tax
on income and the withholding tax established by this section are deemed to be
levied in accordance with, and to be consistent with, the provisions and
limitations of R.C. Chapter 718. This chapter is deemed to incorporate the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 718.
      (2)   The tax is an annual tax levied on the income of every person or
entity residing in or earning or receiving income or net profits in the
village, and every person or entity earning or receiving income or net profits
within Strasburg-Franklin Joint Economic Development District or any other
joint economic development district to which the village becomes a party, and
shall be measured by municipal taxable income. The village shall tax such
income or net profits at a uniform rate. The tax is levied on municipal taxable
income, as defined herein.
   (B)   Purposes of tax; rate.
      (1)   The purpose of the village income tax is to provide funds for the
purposes of general municipal operations, maintenance, new equipment, extension
and enlargement of municipal services and facilities, and capital improvements
in and for the village.
      (2)   Subject to the provisions of this chapter, an annual tax for the
purposes specified in division (B)(1) of this section shall be imposed on or
after January 1, 2016, at the rate of 1.5% per annum upon the salaries, wages,
commissions and other compensation earned on or after January 1, 2016 by
residents of the village, and by non-residents for work done or services
performed or rendered in the village, except as otherwise provided herein.
   (C)   Allocation of funds. 
      (1)   The funds collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be
deposited in a special fund known as a Income Tax Fund and said funds shall be
disbursed in the following manner:
         (a)   Such part thereof as necessary to defray all costs of collecting
the taxes and the cost of administering and enforcing the provisions thereof;
         (b)   Not more than 75% of the net available income tax received
annually shall be deposited in the General Fund to defray operating expenses of
the village;
         (c)   At least 15% of net available income tax received annually shall
be deposited in the Permanent Improvement Fund to be used for capital
improvements for the village; and
         (d)   At least 10% of net available income tax receipts received
annually shall be deposited in the Park Fund for the village to defray
operating expenses for Strasburg-Franklin Park.
      (2)   The funds collected from within the Strasburg-Franklin Joint
Economic Development District shall be allocated and used strictly in
accordance with the terms of the Strasburg-Franklin Joint Economic Development
Contract. The village shall enter into a tax agreement for the administering,
collection and enforcement of the village income and net profits tax from
within the territory of said Joint Economic Development District.
   (D)   Statement of procedural history; state mandated changes to municipal
income tax.
      (1)   Significant and wide-ranging amendments to R.C. Chapter 718 were
enacted by H.B. 5, passed by the 130th General Assembly, and signed by Governor
Kasich on December 19, 2014, and H.B. 5 required municipal corporations to
conform to and adopt the provisions of R.C. Chapter 718 in order to have the
authority to impose, enforce, administer and collect a municipal income tax.
      (2)   As mandated by H.B. 5, municipal income tax ordinance as mandated,
effective January 1, 2016, this chapter is in accordance with the provisions of
R.C. Chapter 718 to allow the municipality to continue the income tax and
withholding tax administration and collection efforts on behalf of the
municipality.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015; Ord. O-26-2018, passed - -2018)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to tax income and without tax, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 34.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter, effective January 1, 2016, and corresponding changes to
R.C. Chapter 718, apply to municipal taxable years beginning on or after
January 1, 2016. All provisions of this chapter applies taxable years beginning
2016 and succeeding taxable years.
   (B)   This chapter does not repeal the existing sections previous ordinances
for any taxable year prior to 2016, but rather amends them. For municipal
taxable years beginning before January 1, 2016, the municipality shall continue
to administer, audit and enforce the income tax of the municipality under R.C.
Chapter 718 and ordinances and resolutions of the municipality as that chapter
and those ordinances and resolutions existed before January 1, 2016.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see R.C. § 718.04
§ 34.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Any term used in this chapter that is not otherwise defined in this
chapter has the same meaning as when used in a comparable context in laws of
the United States relating to federal income taxation or in R.C. Title LVII,
unless a different meaning is clearly required. If a term used in this chapter
that is not otherwise defined in this chapter is used in a comparable context
in both the laws of the United States relating to federal income tax and in
R.C. Title LVII and the use is not consistent, then the use of the term in the
laws of the United States relating to federal income tax shall control over the
use of the term in R.C. Title LVII. For purposes of this section, the singular
shall include the plural, and the masculine shall include the feminine and the
gender-neutral.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. For a person required to file as a C
corporation, or for a person that has elected to be taxed as a C corporation
under this section, a C corporation’s federal taxable income before net
operating losses and special deductions as determined under the Internal
Revenue Code, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct intangible income to the extent included in federal
taxable income. The deduction shall be allowed regardless of whether the
intangible income relates to assets used in a trade or business or assets held
for the production of income;
         (b)   Add an amount equal to 5% of intangible income deducted under
this section, but excluding that portion of intangible income directly related
to the sale, exchange or other disposition of property described in I.R.C. §
1221;
         (c)   Add any losses allowed as a deduction in the computation of
federal taxable income if the losses directly relate to the sale, exchange or
other disposition of an asset described in I.R.C. §§ 1221 or 1231;
         (d)   1.   Except as provided in division (d)2. of this definition,
deduct income and gain included in federal taxable income to the extent the
income and gain directly relate to the sale, exchange or other disposition of
an asset described in I.R.C. §§ 1221 or 1231; or
            2.   Division (d)1. of this definition does not apply to the extent
the income or gain is income or gain described in I.R.C. §§ 1245 or 1250.
         (e)   Add taxes on or measured by net income allowed as a deduction in
the computation of federal taxable income;
         (f)   In the case of a real estate investment trust or regulated
investment company, add all amounts with respect to dividends to, distributions
to or amounts set aside for or credited to the benefit of investors and allowed
as a deduction in the computation of federal taxable income;
         (g)   Deduct, to the extent not otherwise deducted or excluded in
computing federal taxable income, any income derived from a transfer agreement
or from the enterprise transferred under that agreement under R.C. § 4313.02;
         (h)   1.   a.   Except as limited by divisions (h)2., (h)3. and (h)4.
of this definition, deduct any net operating loss incurred by the person in a
taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 2017.
               b.   The amount of such net operating loss shall be deducted
from net profit that is reduced by exempt income to the extent necessary to
reduce municipal taxable income to zero, with any remaining unused portion of
the net operating loss carried forward to not more than five consecutive
taxable years following the taxable year in which the loss was incurred, but in
no case for more years than necessary for the deduction to be fully utilized.
            2.   No person shall use the deduction allowed by division (h) of
this definition to off-set qualifying wages.
            3.   a.   For taxable years beginning in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021 or
2022, a person may not deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a
municipal corporation that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, more
than 50% of the amount of the deduction otherwise allowed by division (h)1. of
this definition.
               b.   For taxable years beginning in 2023 or thereafter, a person
may deduct, for purposes of an income tax levied by a municipal corporation
that levies an income tax before January 1, 2016, the full amount allowed by
division (h)1. of this definition.
            4.   Any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward deduction that is
available must be utilized before a taxpayer may deduct any amount pursuant to
division (h)1. of this definition.
            5.   Nothing in division (h)3.a. of this definition precludes a
person from carrying forward, for use with respect to any return filed for a
taxable year beginning after 2018, any amount of net operating loss that was
not fully utilized by operation of division (h)3.a. of this definition. To the
extent that an amount of net operating loss that was not fully utilized in one
or more taxable years by operation of division (h)3.a. of this definition is
carried forward for use with respect to a return filed for a taxable year
beginning in 2019, 2020, 2021 or 2022, the limitation described in division
(h)3.a. of this definition shall apply to the amount carried forward.
         (i)   Deduct any net profit of a pass-through entity owned directly or
indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal taxable
income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that net profit in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
34.06(E)(3)(b).
         (j)   1.   Add any loss incurred by a pass-through entity owned
directly or indirectly by the taxpayer and included in the taxpayer’s federal
taxable income unless an affiliated group of corporations includes that loss in
the group’s federal taxable income in accordance with §
34.06(E)(3)(b).
            2.   If the taxpayer is not a C corporation, is not a disregarded
entity that has made the election described in this section, is not a publicly
traded partnership that has made the election described in this section, and is
not an individual, the taxpayer shall compute adjusted federal taxable income
under this section as if the taxpayer were a C corporation, except guaranteed
payments and other similar amounts paid or accrued to a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be
allowed as a deductible expense unless such payments are in consideration for
the use of capital and treated as payment of interest under I.R.C. § 469 or
United States treasury regulations. Amounts paid or accrued to a qualified
self-employed retirement plan with respect to a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member of the taxpayer,
amounts paid or accrued to or for health insurance for a partner, former
partner, shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member, and amounts
paid or accrued to or for life insurance for a partner, former partner,
shareholder, former shareholder, member or former member shall not be allowed
as a deduction.
            3.   Nothing in this definition shall be construed as allowing the
taxpayer to add or deduct any amount more than once or shall be construed as
allowing any taxpayer to deduct any amount paid to or accrued for purposes of
federal self-employment tax.
      ASSESSMENT.
         (a)   Any of the following:
            1.   A written finding by the Tax Administrator that a person has
underpaid municipal income tax, or owes penalty and interest, or any
combination of tax, penalty or interest, to the municipal corporation;
            2.   A full or partial denial of a refund request issued under §
34.09(F)(2) of this chapter;
            3.   A Tax Administrator’s denial of a taxpayer’s request for use
of an alternative apportionment method, issued under §
34.06(B)(2);
            4.   A Tax Administrator’s requirement for a taxpayer to use an
alternative apportionment method issued under §
34.06(B)(3); or
            5.   For purposes of divisions (a)1., (a)2., (a)3. and (a)4. of
this definition, an ASSESSMENT shall commence the person’s time limitation for
making an appeal to the Local Board of Tax Review pursuant to §
34.18, and shall have “ASSESSMENT” written in all capital letters at the top of
such finding.
         (b)   ASSESSMENT does not include notice(s) denying a request for
refund issued under §
34.09(F)(3), a billing statement notifying a taxpayer of current or past-due
balances owed to the municipal corporation, a Tax Administrator’s request for
additional information, a notification to the taxpayer of mathematical errors,
or a Tax Administrator’s other written correspondence to a person or taxpayer
that does not meet the criteria prescribed by division (a) of this definition.
      AUDIT. The examination of a person or the inspection of the books,
records, memoranda or accounts of a person, ordered to appear before the Tax
Administrator, for the purpose of determining liability for a municipal income
tax.
      BOARD OF REVIEW. The same meaning as LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
      CALENDAR QUARTER. The three-month period ending on the last day of March,
June, September or December.
      CASINO OPERATOR and CASINO FACILITY. The same meanings as in R.C. §
3772.01.
      CERTIFIED MAIL, EXPRESS MAIL, UNITED STATES MAIL and POSTAL SERVICE. Any
delivery service authorized pursuant to R.C. § 5703.056.
      COMPENSATION. Any form of remuneration paid to an employee for personal
services.
      DISREGARDED ENTITY. A single member limited liability company, a
qualifying subchapter S subsidiary or another entity if the company, subsidiary
or entity is a disregarded entity for federal income tax purposes.
      DOMICILE. The true, fixed and permanent home of the taxpayer to which,
whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
      EXEMPT INCOME. All of the following:
         (a)   The military pay or allowances of members of the Armed Forces of
the United States or members of their reserve components, including the
National Guard of any state;
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (b)2. of this definition,
intangible income; and
            2.   A municipal corporation that taxed any type of intangible
income on March 29, 1988, pursuant to § 3 of S.B. 238 of the 116th General
Assembly, may continue to tax that type of income if a majority of the electors
of the municipal corporation voting on the question of whether to permit the
taxation of that type of intangible income after 1988 voted in favor thereof at
an election held on November 8, 1988.
         (c)   Social Security benefits, railroad retirement benefits,
unemployment compensation, pensions, retirement benefit payments, payments from
annuities and similar payments made to an employee or to the beneficiary of an
employee under a retirement program or plan, disability payments received from
private industry or local, state or federal governments or from charitable,
religious or educational organizations, and the proceeds of sickness, accident
or liability insurance policies. As used in division (c) of this definition,
unemployment compensation does not include supplemental unemployment
compensation described in I.R.C. § 3402(o)(2);
         (d)   The income of religious, fraternal, charitable, scientific,
literary or educational institutions to the extent such income is derived from
tax-exempt real estate, tax-exempt tangible or intangible property, or tax-
exempt activities;
         (e)   Compensation paid under R.C. §§ 3501.28 or 3501.36 to a person
serving as a precinct election official to the extent that such compensation
does not exceed $1,000 for the taxable year. Such compensation in excess of
$1,000 for the taxable year may be subject to taxation by a municipal
corporation. A municipal corporation shall not require the payer of such
compensation to withhold any tax from that compensation;
         (f)   Dues, contributions and similar payments received by charitable,
religious, educational or literary organizations or labor unions, lodges and
similar organizations;
         (g)   Alimony and child support received;
         (h)   Awards for personal injuries or for damages to property from
insurance proceeds or otherwise, excluding compensation paid for lost salaries
or wages or awards for punitive damages;
         (i)   Income of a public utility when that public utility is subject
to the tax levied under R.C. §§ 5727.24 or 5727.30. This subsection does not
apply for purposes of R.C. Chapter 5745;
         (j)   Gains from involuntary conversions, interest on federal
obligations, items of income subject to a tax levied by the state and that a
municipal corporation is specifically prohibited by law from taxing, and income
of a decedent’s estate during the period of administration except such income
from the operation of a trade or business;
         (k)   Compensation or allowances excluded from federal gross income
under I.R.C. § 107;
         (l)   Employee compensation that is not qualifying wages as defined in
this section;
         (m)   Compensation paid to a person employed within the boundaries of
a United States Air Force Base under the jurisdiction of the United States Air
Force that is used for the housing of members of the United States Air Force
and is a center for air force operations, unless the person is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile. If the compensation is subject to
taxation because of residence or domicile, tax on such income shall be payable
only to the municipal corporation of residence or domicile;
         (n)   1.   Except as provided in divisions (n)2., (n)3. and (n)4. of
this definition, qualifying wages described in §
34.05(B)(1) or (E) to the extent the qualifying wages are not subject to
withholding for the municipality under either of those divisions.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (n)1. of this definition
does not apply with respect to the municipal corporation in which the employee
resided at the time the employee earned the qualifying wages.
            3.   The exemption provided in division (n)1. of this definition
does not apply to qualifying wages that an employer elects to withhold under §
34.05(B)(4)(a).
            4.   The exemption provided in division (n)1. of this definition
does not apply to qualifying wages if both of the following conditions apply:
               a.   For qualifying wages described in §
34.05(B)(2)(a), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the
qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s principal
place of work is situated, or, for qualifying wages described in §
34.05(B)(5), the employee’s employer withholds and remits tax on the qualifying
wages to the municipal corporation in which the employer’s fixed location is
located; and
               b.   The employee receives a refund of the tax described in
division (n)4.a. of this definition on the basis of the employee not performing
services in that municipal corporation.
         (o)   1.   Except as provided in division (o)2. or (o)3. of this
definition, compensation that is not qualifying wages paid to a non-resident
individual for personal services performed in the municipality on not more than
20 days in a taxable year.
            2.   The exemption provided in division (o)1. of this definition
does not apply under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual’s base of operation is located in the
municipality;
               b.   The individual is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the compensation is paid for the performance
of services in the individual’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure. For purposes of this subsection,
professional athlete, professional entertainer and public figure have the same
meanings as in §
34.05(B);
               c.   Compensation to which division (o) of this definition
applies shall be treated as earned or received at the individual’s base of
operation. If the individual does not have a base of operation, the
compensation shall be treated as earned or received where the individual is
domiciled; or
               d.   For purposes of division (o) of this definition, base of
operation means the location where an individual owns or rents an office,
storefront or similar facility to which the individual regularly reports and at
which the individual regularly performs personal services for compensation.
         (p)   Compensation paid to a person for personal services performed
for a political subdivision on property owned by the political subdivision,
regardless of whether the compensation is received by an employee of the
subdivision or another person performing services for the subdivision under a
contract with the subdivision, if the property on which services are performed
is annexed to a municipal corporation pursuant to R.C. § 709.023 on or after
March 27, 2013, unless the person is subject to such taxation because of
residence. If the compensation is subject to taxation because of residence,
municipal income tax shall be payable only to the municipal corporation of
residence; and
         (q)   1.   Income the taxation of which is prohibited by the
constitution or laws of the United States.
            2.   Any item of income that is exempt income of a pass-through
entity under this definition is exempt income of each owner of the pass-through
entity to the extent of that owner’s distributive or proportionate share of
that item of the entity’s income.
      FORM 2106. Internal Revenue Service Form 2106 filed by a taxpayer
pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      GENERIC FORM. An electronic or paper form that is not prescribed by a
particular municipal corporation and that is designed for reporting taxes
withheld by an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, estimated
municipal income taxes or annual municipal income tax liability, including a
request for refund.
      INCOME. The following:
         (a)   1.   For residents, all income, salaries, qualifying wages,
commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or received by
the resident, including the resident’s distributive share of the net profit of
pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the resident and any net
profit of the resident, except as provided in this section.
            2.   For the purposes of division (a)1. of this definition:
               a.   Any net operating loss of the resident incurred in the
taxable year and the resident’s distributive share of any net operating loss
generated in the same taxable year and attributable to the resident’s ownership
interest in a pass-through entity shall be allowed as a deduction, for that
taxable year and the following five taxable years, against any other net profit
of the resident or the resident’s distributive share of any net profit
attributable to the resident’s ownership interest in a pass-through entity
until fully utilized, subject to division (a)4. of this definition;
               b.   The resident’s distributive share of the net profit of each
pass-through entity owned directly or indirectly by the resident shall be
calculated without regard to any net operating loss that is carried forward by
that entity from a prior taxable year and applied to reduce the entity’s net
profit for the current taxable year;
               c.   Division (a)2. of this definition does not apply with
respect to any net profit or net operating loss attributable to an ownership
interest in an S corporation unless shareholders’ distributive shares of net
profits from S corporations are subject to tax in the municipal corporation as
provided in this section; and
               d.   Any amount of a net operating loss used to reduce a
taxpayer’s net profit for a taxable year shall reduce the amount of net
operating loss that may be carried forward to any subsequent year for use by
that taxpayer. In no event shall the cumulative deductions for all taxable
years with respect to a taxpayer’s net operating loss exceed the original
amount of that net operating loss available to that taxpayer.
         (b)   In the case of non-residents, all income, salaries, qualifying
wages, commissions and other compensation from whatever source earned or
received by the non-resident for work done, services performed or rendered, or
activities conducted in the municipality, including any net profit of the non-
resident, but excluding the non-resident’s distributive share of the net profit
or loss of only pass-through entities owned directly or indirectly by the non-
resident;
         (c)   For taxpayers that are not individuals, net profit of the
taxpayer; and
         (d)   Lottery, sweepstakes, gambling and sports winnings, winnings
from games of chance, and prizes and awards. If the taxpayer is a professional
gambler for federal income tax purposes, the taxpayer may deduct related
wagering losses and expenses to the extent authorized under the Internal
Revenue Code and claimed against such winnings. Credit for tax withheld or paid
to another municipal corporation on such winnings paid to the municipal
corporation where winnings occur is limited to the credit as specified in §
34.08(A).
      INTANGIBLE INCOME. Income of any of the following types: income yield,
interest, capital gains, dividends or other income arising from the ownership,
sale, exchange or other disposition of intangible property including, but not
limited to, investments, deposits, money or credits as those terms are defined
in R.C. Chapter 5701, and patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade names,
investments in real estate investment trusts, investments in regulated
investment companies and appreciation on deferred compensation. INTANGIBLE
INCOME does not include prizes, awards or other income associated with any
lottery winnings, gambling winnings or other similar games of chance.
      INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. I.R.C. of 1986, 26 U.S.C. For example, where
reference is made to “§ 1221 of the Internal Revenue Code,” the complete
citation would then be 26 U.S.C. § 1221.
      LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company formed under R.C.
Chapter 1705 or 1706 or under the laws of another state.
      LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW and BOARD OF TAX REVIEW. The entity created
under §
34.18.
      MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A status conferred upon a local government unit,
by state law giving the unit certain autonomous operating authority such as the
power of taxation, power of eminent domain, police power and regulatory power,
and includes a joint economic development district or joint economic
development zone that levies an income tax under R.C. §§ 715.691, 715.70,
715.71 or 715.72.
      MUNICIPAL TAXABLE INCOME.
         (a)   1.   For a person other than an individual, income reduced by
exempt income to the extent otherwise included in income and then, as
applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality under §
34.06(B), and further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward
available to the person for the municipality.
            2.   a.   For an individual who is a resident of a municipality
other than a qualified municipal corporation, income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, then reduced as provided in
division (b) of this definition, and further reduced by any pre-2017 net
operating loss carryforward available to the individual for the municipality.
               b.   For an individual who is a resident of a qualified
municipal corporation, Ohio adjusted gross income reduced by income exempted,
and increased by deductions excluded, by the qualified municipal corporation
from the qualified municipal corporation’s tax on or before December 31, 2013.
If a qualified municipal corporation, on or before December 31, 2013, exempts
income earned by individuals who are not residents of the qualified municipal
corporation and net profit of persons that are not wholly located within the
qualified municipal corporation, such individual or person shall have no
municipal taxable income for the purposes of the tax levied by the qualified
municipal corporation and may be exempted by the qualified municipal
corporation from the requirements of R.C. § 718.03.
               c.   For an individual who is a non-resident of the
municipality, income reduced by exempt income to the extent otherwise included
in income and then, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality
under §
34.06(B), then reduced as provided in division (b) of this definition, and
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward available to
the individual for the municipality.
         (b)   In computing the municipal taxable income of a taxpayer who is
an individual, the taxpayer may subtract, as provided in division (a)2.a. or
(a)2.c. of this definition, the amount of the individual’s employee business
expenses reported on the individual’s form 2106 that the individual deducted
for federal income tax purposes for the taxable year, subject to the limitation
imposed by I.R.C. § 67. For the municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is
a resident, the taxpayer may deduct all such expenses allowed for federal
income tax purposes. For a municipal corporation in which the taxpayer is not a
resident, the taxpayer may deduct such expenses only to the extent the expenses
are related to the taxpayer’s performance of personal services in that non-
resident municipal corporation.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      NET OPERATING LOSS. A loss incurred by a person in the operation of a
trade or business. NET OPERATING LOSS does not include unutilized losses
resulting from basis limitations, at-risk limitations or passive activity loss
limitations.
      NET PROFIT.
         (a)   A person other than an individual means adjusted federal taxable
income.
         (b)   NET PROFIT for a person who is an individual, means the
individual’s net profit required to be reported on schedule C, schedule E or
schedule F reduced by any net operating loss carried forward. For the purposes
of division (a) of this definition, the net operating loss carried forward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in this
section.
         (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding division
(a) of this definition, NET PROFIT of a disregarded entity shall not be taxable
as against that disregarded entity, but shall instead be included in the net
profit of the owner of the disregarded entity.
         (d)   1.   For purposes of this chapter, “publicly traded partnership”
means any partnership, an interest in which is regularly traded on an
established securities market. A publicly traded partnership may have any
number of partners.
            2.   For the purposes of this chapter, and notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the NET PROFIT of a publicly traded
partnership that makes the election described in this division shall be taxed
as if the partnership were a C corporation, and shall not be treated as the NET
PROFIT or income of any owner of the partnership.
            3.   A publicly traded partnership that is treated as a partnership
for federal income tax purposes and that is subject to tax on its net profits
in one or more municipal corporations in this state may elect to be treated as
a C corporation for municipal income tax purposes. The publicly traded
partnership shall make the election in every municipal corporation in which the
partnership is subject to taxation on its NET PROFITS. The election shall be
made on the annual tax return filed in each such municipal corporation. Once
the election is made, the election is binding for a five-year period beginning
with the first taxable year of the initial election. The election continues to
be binding for each subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to
discontinue filing municipal income tax returns as a C corporation for
municipal purposes under division (d)4. of this definition.
            4.   An election to discontinue filing as a C corporation must be
made in the first year following the last year of a five-year election period
in effect under division (d)3. of this definition. The election to discontinue
filing as a C corporation is binding for a five-year period beginning with the
first taxable year of the election and continues to be binding for each
subsequent five-year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing
municipal income tax returns as a partnership for municipal purposes. An
election to discontinue filing as a partnership must be made in the first year
following the last year of a five-year election period.
            5.   The publicly traded partnership shall not be required to file
the election with any municipal corporation in which the partnership is not
subject to taxation on its net profits, but division (d) of this definition
applies to all municipal corporations in which an individual owner of the
partnership resides.
            6.   The individual owners of the partnership not filing as a C
corporation shall be required to file with their municipal corporation of
residence, and report partnership distribution of net profit.
      NON-RESIDENT. An individual that is not a resident of the municipality.
      OHIO BUSINESS GATEWAY. The online computer network system, created under
R.C. § 125.30, that allows persons to electronically file business reply forms
with state agencies and includes any successor electronic filing and payment
system.
      OTHER PAYER. Any person, other than an individual’s employer or the
employer’s agent, that pays an individual any amount included in the federal
gross income of the individual. OTHER PAYER includes casino operators and video
lottery terminal sales agents.
      PASS-THROUGH ENTITY. A partnership not treated as an association taxable
as a C corporation for federal income tax purposes, a limited liability company
not treated as an association taxable as a C corporation for federal income tax
purposes, an S corporation or any other class of entity from which the income
or profits of the entity are given pass-through treatment for federal income
tax purposes. PASS-THROUGH ENTITY does not include a trust, estate, grantor of
a grantor trust or disregarded entity.
      PENSION. Any amount paid to an employee or former employee that is
reported to the recipient on an IRS form 1099-R, or successor form. PENSION
does not include deferred compensation, or amounts attributable to nonqualified
deferred compensation plans, reported as FICA/Medicare wages on an IRS form W-
2, wage and tax statement or successor form.
      PERSON. Includes individuals, firms, companies, joint stock companies,
business trusts, estates, trusts, partnerships, limited liability partnerships,
limited liability companies, associations, C corporations, S corporations,
governmental entities and any other entity.
      POSTAL SERVICE. The United States Postal Service or private delivery
service delivering documents and packages within an agreed upon delivery
schedule, or any other carrier service delivering the item.
      POSTMARK DATE or DATE OF POSTMARK. The date recorded and marked by a
delivery service and recorded electronically to a database kept in the regular
course if its business and marked on the cover in which the payment or document
is enclosed, the date on which the payment or document was given to the
delivery service for delivery
      PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD.
      (1)   Any net operating loss incurred in a taxable year beginning before
January 1, 2017, to the extent such loss was permitted, by a resolution or
ordinance of the municipality that was adopted by the municipality before
January 1, 2016, to be carried forward and utilized to offset income or net
profit generated in such municipality in future taxable years.
      (2)   For the purpose of calculating municipal taxable income, any pre-
2017 net operating loss carryforward may be carried forward to any taxable
year, including taxable years beginning in 2017 or thereafter, for the number
of taxable years provided in the resolution or ordinance or until fully
utilized, whichever is earlier.
      QUALIFIED MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. A municipal corporation that, by
resolution or ordinance adopted on or before December 31, 2011, adopted state
adjusted gross income, as defined by R.C. § 5747.01, as the income subject to
tax for the purposes of imposing a municipal income tax.
      QUALIFYING WAGES. Wages, as defined in I.R.C. § 3121(a), without regard
to any wage limitations, adjusted as follows:
         (a)   Deduct the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes
compensation attributable to a plan or program described in I.R.C. § 125;
            2.   Any amount included in wages if the amount constitutes payment
bn account of a disability related to sickness or an accident paid by a party
unrelated to the employer, agent of an employer or other payer;
            3.   Any amount attributable to a nonqualified deferred
compensation plan or program described in I.R.C. § 3121(v)(2)(C) if the
compensation is included in wages;
            4.   Any amount included in wages if the amount arises from the
sale, exchange or other disposition of a stock option, the exercise of a stock
option, or the sale, exchange or other disposition of stock purchased under a
stock option; and
            5.   Any amount included in wages that is exempt income.
         (b)   Add the following amounts:
            1.   Any amount not included in wages solely because the employee
was employed by the employer before April 1, 1986;
            2.   Any amount not included in wages if the amount is an amount
described in I.R.C. §§ 401(k), 403(b), or 457. Division (b)3. of this
definition applies only to employee contributions and employee deferrals;
            3.   Any amount that is supplemental unemployment compensation
benefits described in I.R.C. § 3402(o)(2) and not included in wages;
            4.   Any amount received that is treated as self-employment income
for federal tax purposes in accordance with I.R.C. § 1402(a)(8); and
            5.   Any amount not included in wages if all of the following
apply:
               a.   For the taxable year, the amount is employee compensation
that is earned outside of the United States and that either is included in the
taxpayer’s gross income for federal income tax purposes or would have been
included in the taxpayer’s gross income for such purposes if the taxpayer did
not elect to exclude the income under I.R.C. § 911;
               b.   For no preceding taxable year, did the amount constitute
wages as defined in I.R.C. § 3121(a);
               c.   For no succeeding taxable year, will the amount constitute
wages; and
               d.   For any taxable year, the amount has not otherwise been
added to wages pursuant to either division (b) of this definition or R.C. §
718.03, as that section existed before the effective date of H.B. 5 of the
130th General Assembly, March 23, 2015.
      RELATED ENTITY. Any of the following:
         (a)   An individual stockholder, or a member of the stockholder’s
family enumerated in I.R.C. § 318, if the stockholder and the members of the
stockholder’s family own directly, indirectly, beneficially or constructively,
in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s outstanding
stock;
         (b)   A stockholder, or a stockholder’s partnership, estate, trust or
corporation, if the stockholder and the stockholder’s partnerships, estates,
trusts or corporations own directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, in the aggregate, at least 50% of the value of the taxpayer’s
outstanding stock;
         (c)   A corporation, or a party related to the corporation in a manner
that would require an attribution of stock from the corporation to the party or
from the party to the corporation under division (d) of this definition;
provided the taxpayer owns directly, indirectly, beneficially or
constructively, at least 50% of the value of the corporation’s outstanding
stock; and
         (d)   The attribution rules described in I.R.C. § 318 apply for the
purpose of determining whether the ownership requirements in divisions (a) to
(c) of this definition have been met.
      RELATED MEMBER. A person that, with respect to the taxpayer during all or
any portion of the taxable year, is either a related entity, a component member
as defined in I.R.C. § 1563(b), or a person to or from whom there is
attribution of stock ownership in accordance with I.R.C. § 1563(e) except, for
purposes of determining whether a person is a related member under this
division, “20%” shall be substituted for “5%” wherever “5%” appears in I.R.C. §
1563(e).
      RESIDENT. An individual who is domiciled in the municipality as
determined under §
34.04.
      S CORPORATION. A person that has made an election under I.R.C. subchapter
S of Chapter 1 of Subtitle A for its taxable year.
      SCHEDULE C. Internal Revenue Service Schedule C (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE E. Internal Revenue Service Schedule E (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SCHEDULE F. Internal Revenue Service Schedule F (Form 1040) filed by a
taxpayer pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code.
      SINGLE MEMBER LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY. A limited liability company that
has one direct member.
      SMALL EMPLOYER. Any employer that had total revenue of less than $500,000
during the preceding taxable year. For purposes of this division, “total
revenue” means receipts of any type or kind, including, but not limited to,
sales receipts; payments; rents; profits; gains, dividends and other investment
income; commissions; premiums; money; property; grants; contributions;
donations; gifts; program service revenue; patient service revenue; premiums;
fees, including premium fees and service fees; tuition payments; unrelated
business revenue; reimbursements; any type of payment from a governmental unit,
including grants and other allocations; and any other similar receipts reported
for federal income tax purposes or under generally accepted accounting
principles. SMALL EMPLOYER does not include the federal government; any state
government, including any state agency or instrumentality; any political
subdivision; or any entity treated as a government for financial accounting and
reporting purposes.
      TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
         (a)   Subject to division (b) of this definition, the individual
charged with direct responsibility for administration of an income tax levied
by a municipal corporation in accordance with this chapter, and also includes
the following:
            1.   A municipal corporation acting as the agent of another
municipal corporation;
            2.   A person retained by a municipal corporation to administer a
tax levied by the municipal corporation, but only if the municipal corporation
does not compensate the person in whole or in part on a contingency basis; or
            3.   The Central Collection Agency (CCA) or the Regional Income Tax
Agency (RITA) or their successors in interest, or another entity organized to
perform functions similar to those performed by the Central Collection Agency
and the Regional Income Tax Agency.
         (b)   TAX ADMINISTRATOR does not include the tax commissioner.
         (c)   A private individual or entity serving in any position described
in division (a)2. or (a)3. of this definition shall have no access to criminal
history record information.
      TAX RETURN PREPARER. Any individual described in I.R.C. § 7701(a)(36) and
26 C.F.R. § 301.7701-15.
      TAXABLE YEAR. The corresponding tax reporting period as prescribed for
the taxpayer under the Internal Revenue Code.
      TAXPAYER.
         (a)   A person subject to a tax levied on income by a municipal
corporation in accordance with this chapter. TAXPAYER does not include a
grantor trust or, except as provided in division (b)1. of this definition, a
disregarded entity.
         (b)   1.   A single member limited liability company that is a
disregarded entity for federal tax purposes may be a separate taxpayer from its
single member in all state municipal corporations in which it either filed as a
separate taxpayer or did not file for its taxable year ending in 2003, if all
of the following conditions are met:
               a.   The limited liability company’s single member is also a
limited liability company;
               b.   The limited liability company and its single member were
formed and doing business in one or more state municipal corporations for at
least five years before January 1, 2004;
               c.   Not later than December 31, 2004, the limited liability
comp as this section existed on December 31,2004;
               d.   The limited liability company was not formed for the
purpose of evading or reducing state municipal corporation income tax liability
of the limited liability company or its single member; and
               e.   The state municipal corporation that was the primary place
of business of the sole member of the limited liability company consented to
the election.
            2.   For purposes of division (b)1.e. of this definition, a
municipal corporation was the primary place of business of a limited liability
company if, for the limited liability company’s taxable year ending in 2003,
its income tax liability was greater in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation in the state, and that tax liability to that
municipal corporation for its taxable year ending in 2003 was at least
$400,000.
      TAXPAYERS’ RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES. The rights provided to taxpayers
in R.C. §§ 718.11, 718.12, 718.19, 718.23, 718.36, 718.37, 718.38, 5717.011 and
5717.03, and any corresponding ordinances of the municipality, and the
responsibilities of taxpayers to file, report, withhold, remit and pay
municipal income tax and otherwise comply with R.C. Ch. 718 and resolutions,
ordinances and rules adopted by a municipal corporation for the imposition and
administration of a municipal income tax.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL. The same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
      VIDEO LOTTERY TERMINAL SALES AGENT. A lottery sales agent licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3770 to conduct video lottery terminals on behalf of the state
pursuant to R.C. § 3770.21.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Related definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
§ 34.04 INCOME SUBJECT TO TAX FOR INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Determining municipal taxable income for individuals.
      (1)   Municipal taxable income for a resident of the municipality. Income
reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is otherwise included
in income, reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in
§
34.03, further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward equals
municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
34.03.
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
34.03.
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in income and is defined in §
34.03. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in §
34.03. Treatment of net profits received by an individual taxpayer from rental
real estate is provided in §
34.06(B) through (E).
            3.   Section 34.03 provides the following: off-setting and net
operating loss carryforward treatment; resident’s distributive share of net
profit from pass-through entity treatment in; treatment of S Corporation
distributive share of net profit in the hands of the shareholder; and
restriction of amount of loss permitted to be carried forward for use by
taxpayer in a subsequent taxable year.
            4.   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
34.03.
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
34.03.
         (c)   Allowable employee business expense deduction is described in §
34.03 and is subject to the limitations provided in that section.
         (d)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
34.03.
      (2)   Municipal taxable income for a non-resident of the municipality.
Income reduced by exempt income to the extent such exempt income is otherwise
included in income, as applicable, apportioned or sitused to the municipality
as provided in §
34.06(B), reduced by allowable employee business expense deduction as found in
§
34.03, further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward equals
municipal taxable income.
         (a)   INCOME is defined in §
34.03.
            1.   QUALIFYING WAGES is defined in §
34.03.
            2.   NET PROFIT is included in income and is defined in §
34.03. This section also provides that the net operating loss carryforward
shall be calculated and deducted in the same manner as provided in §
34.03. Net profit for a non-resident individual includes any net profit of the
non-resident, but excludes the distributive share of net profit or loss of only
pass through entity owned directly or indirectly by the non-resident.
            3.   PASS-THROUGH ENTITY is defined in §
34.03.
         (b)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
34.03.
         (c)   Apportioned or sitused to the municipality as provided in §
34.06(B) includes the apportionment of net profit income attributable to work
done or services performed in the municipality. Treatment of net profits
received by an individual taxpayer from rental real estate is provided in §
34.06(B) through (E).
         (d)   Allowable employee business expense deduction as described in §
34.03, is subject to the limitations provided in that section. For a non-
resident of the municipality, the deduction is limited to the extent the
expenses are related to the performance of personal services by the non-
resident in the municipality.
         (e)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in § 34.403.
   (B)   Domicile.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         (a)   DOMICILE means the true, fixed and permanent home of the
taxpayer to which whenever absent, the taxpayer intends to return.
         (b)   An individual is presumed to be domiciled in the municipality
for all or part of a taxable year if the individual was domiciled in the
municipality on the last day of the immediately preceding taxable year or if
the tax administrator reasonably concludes that the individual is domiciled in
the municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
         (c)   An individual may rebut the presumption of domicile described in
division (B)(1)(a) of this section if the individual establishes by a
preponderance of the evidence that the individual was not domiciled in the
municipality for all or part of the taxable year.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining whether an individual is domiciled
in the municipality for all or part of a taxable year, factors that may be
considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The individual’s domicile in other taxable years;
         (b)   The location at which the individual is registered to vote;
         (c)   The address on the individual’s driver’s license;
         (d)   The location of real estate for which the individual claimed a
property tax exemption or reduction allowed on the basis of the individual’s
residence or domicile;
         (e)   The location and value of abodes owned or leased by the
individual;
         (f)   Declarations, written or oral, made by the individual regarding
the individual’s residency;
         (g)   The primary location at which the individual is employed;
         (h)   The location of educational institutions attended by the
individual’s dependents as defined in I.R.C. § 152, to the extent that tuition
paid to such educational institution is based on the residency of the
individual or the individual’s spouse in the municipal corporation or state
where the educational institution is located; and
         (i)   The number of contact periods the individual has with the
municipality. For the purposes of this division, an individual has one contact
period with the municipality if the individual is away overnight from the
individual’s abode located outside of the municipality and while away overnight
from that abode spends at least some portion, however minimal, of each of two
consecutive days in the municipality. For purposes of this section, the state’s
contact period test or bright-line test and resulting determination have no
bearing on municipal residency or domicile.
      (3)   All applicable factors are provided in R.C. § 718.012.
   (C)   Exemption for member or employee of general assembly and certain
judges.
      (1)   Only the municipal corporation of residence shall be permitted to
levy a tax on the income of any member or employee of the Ohio General
Assembly, including the Lieutenant Governor, whose income is received as a
result of services rendered as such member or employee and is paid from
appropriated funds of this state.
      (2)   Only the municipal corporation of residence and the City of
Columbus shall levy a tax on the income of the Chief Justice or a Justice of
the Supreme Court received as a result of services rendered as the Chief
Justice or Justice. Only the municipal corporation of residence shall levy a
tax on the income of a judge sitting by assignment of the Chief Justice or on
the income of a district court of appeals judge sitting in multiple locations
within the district, received as a result of services rendered as a judge.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Domicile, see R.C. § 718.012
   Exclusion of General Assembly employee or member and certain judges from
tax, see R.C. § 718.50
§ 34.05 COLLECTION AT SOURCE.
   (A)   Collection at source; withholding from qualifying wages.
      (1)   (a)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer located or
doing business in the municipality shall withhold from each employee an amount
equal to the qualifying wages of the employee earned by the employee in the
municipality multiplied by the applicable rate of the municipality’s income
tax, except for qualifying wages for which withholding is not required under
divisions (A)(4), (A)(6) or (B) of this section. An employer, agent of an
employer or other payer shall deduct and withhold the tax from qualifying wages
on the date that the employer, agent or other payer directly, indirectly or
constructively pays the qualifying wages to, or credits the qualifying wages to
the benefit of, the employee.
         (b)   In addition to withholding the amounts required under division
(A)(1)(a) of this section, an employer, agent of an employer or other payer may
also deduct and withhold, on the request of an employee, taxes for the
municipal corporation in which the employee is a resident.
      (2)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall remit to the
Tax Administrator of the municipality the greater of the income taxes deducted
and withheld or the income taxes required to be deducted and withheld by the
employer, agent or other payer, along with any report required by the Tax
Administrator to accompany such payment, according to the following schedule:
         (a)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer not required
to make payments under division (A)(2)(b) of this section of taxes required to
be deducted and withheld shall make quarterly payments to the Tax Administrator
not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the end of each
calendar quarter.
         (b)   Taxes required to be deducted and withheld shall be remitted
monthly to the Tax Administrator if the total taxes deducted and withheld or
required to be deducted and withheld by the employer, agent or other payer on
behalf of the municipal corporation in the preceding calendar year exceeded
$2,399, or if the total amount of taxes deducted and withheld or required to be
deducted and withheld on behalf of the municipality in any month of the
preceding calendar quarter exceeded $200. Payments under this subsection shall
be made to the Tax Administrator not later than 15 days after the last day of
each month.
      (3)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer shall make and
file a return showing the amount of tax withheld by the employer, agent or
other payer from the qualifying wages of each employee and remitted to the Tax
Administrator. A return filed by an employer, agent or other payer under this
division shall be accepted by the municipality as the return required of an
employee whose sole income subject to the tax under this chapter is the
qualifying wages reported by the employee’s employer, agent of an employer or
other payer, unless the municipality requires all resident individual taxpayers
to file a tax return under §
34.09(A).
      (4)   An employer, agent of an employer or other payer is not required to
withhold municipal income tax with respect to an individual’s disqualifying
disposition of an incentive stock option if, at the time of the disqualifying
disposition, the individual is not an employee of either the corporation with
respect to whose stock the option has been issued or of such corporation’s
successor entity.
      (5)   (a)   An employee is not relieved from liability for a tax by the
failure of the employer, agent of an employer or other payer to withhold the
tax as required under this chapter or by the employer’s, agent’s, or other
payer’s exemption from the requirement to withhold the tax.
         (b)   The failure of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer
to remit to the municipality the tax withheld relieves the employee from
liability for that tax unless the employee colluded with the employer, agent or
other payer in connection with the failure to remit the tax withheld.
      (6)   Compensation deferred before June 26, 2003, is not subject to any
municipal corporation income tax or municipal income tax withholding
requirement to the extent the deferred compensation does not constitute
qualifying wages at the time the deferred compensation is paid or distributed.
      (7)   Each employer, agent of an employer or other payer required to
withhold taxes is liable for the payment of that amount required to be
withheld, whether or not such taxes have been withheld, and such amount shall
be deemed to be held in trust for the municipality until such time as the
withheld amount is remitted to the Tax Administrator.
      (8)   On or before the last day of February of each year, an employer
shall file a withholding reconciliation return with the Tax Administrator
listing the names, addresses and Social Security numbers of all employees from
whose qualifying wages tax was withheld or should have been withheld for the
municipality during the preceding calendar year, the amount of tax withheld, if
any, from each such employee’s qualifying wage, the total amount of qualifying
wages paid to such employee during the preceding calendar year, the name of
every other municipal corporation for which tax was withheld or should have
been withheld from such employee during the preceding calendar year, any other
information required for federal income tax reporting purposes on Internal
Revenue Service form W-2 or its equivalent form with respect to such employee
and other information as may be required by the Tax Administrator.
      (9)   The officer or the employee of the employer, agent of an employer
or other payer with control or direct supervision of or charged with the
responsibility for withholding the tax or filing the reports and making
payments as required by this section, shall be personally liable for a failure
to file a report or pay the tax due as required by this section. The
dissolution of an employer, agent of an employer or other payer does not
discharge the officer’s or employee’s liability for a failure of the employer,
agent of an employer or other payer to file returns or pay any tax due.
      (10)   An employer is required to deduct and withhold municipal income
tax on tips and gratuities received by the employer’s employees and
constituting qualifying wages only to the extent that the tips and gratuities
are under the employer’s control. For the purposes of this division, a tip or
gratuity is under the employer’s control if the tip or gratuity is paid by the
customer to the employer for subsequent remittance to the employee, or if the
customer pays the tip or gratuity by credit card, debit card or other
electronic means.
      (11)   A Tax Administrator shall consider any tax withheld by an employer
at the request of an employee when such tax is not otherwise required to be
withheld by this chapter to be tax required to be withheld and remitted for the
purposes of this section.
   (B)   Collection at source; occasional entrant.
      (1)   The following terms as used in this section:
         EMPLOYER. Includes a person that is a related member to or of an
employer.
         FIXED LOCATION. A permanent place of doing business in this state,
such as an office, warehouse, storefront or similar location owned or
controlled by an employer.
         PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK.
            1.   The fixed location to which an employee is required to report
for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not
required to report for employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a
fixed location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the worksite location in this
state to which the employee is required to report for employment duties on a
regular and ordinary basis. If the employee is not required to report for
employment duties on a regular and ordinary basis to a fixed location or
worksite location, PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK means the location in this state at
which the employee spends the greatest number of days in a calendar year
performing services for or on behalf of the employee’s employer.
            2.   If there is not a single municipal corporation in which the
employee spent the greatest number of days in a calendar year performing
services for or on behalf of the employer, but instead there are two or more
municipal corporations in which the employee spent an identical number of days
that is greater than the number of days the employee spent in any other
municipal corporation, the employer shall allocate any of the employee’s
qualifying wages subject to division (B)(2)(a)1. of this section among those
two or more municipal corporations. The allocation shall be made using any fair
and reasonable method, including, but not limited to, an equal allocation among
such municipal corporations or an allocation based upon the time spent or sales
made by the employee in each such municipal corporation. A municipal
corporation to which qualifying wages are allocated under this division shall
be the employee’s PRINCIPAL PLACE OF WORK with respect to those qualifying
wages for the purposes of this section.
            3.   For the purposes of this division, the location at which an
employee spends a particular day shall be deemed in accordance with division
(B)(2)(a) of this section, except that “location” shall be substituted for
“municipal corporation” wherever “municipal corporation” appears in that
division.
         PROFESSIONAL ATHLETE. An athlete who performs services in a
professional athletic event for wages or other remuneration.
         PROFESSIONAL ENTERTAINER. A person who performs services in the
professional performing arts for wages or other remuneration on a per-event
basis.
         PUBLIC FIGURE. A person of prominence who performs services at
discrete events, such as speeches, public appearances or similar events, for
wages or other remuneration on a per-event basis.
         WORKSITE LOCATION. A construction site or other temporary worksite in
this state at which the employer provides services for more than 20 days during
the calendar year. WORKSITE LOCATION does not include the home of an employee.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to divisions (B)(3), (B)(5), (B)(6) and (B)(7) of
this section, an employer is not
required to withhold municipal income tax on qualifying wages paid to an
employee for the performance of personal services in a municipal corporation
that imposes such a tax if the employee performed such services in the
municipal corporation on 20 or fewer days in a calendar year, unless one of the
following conditions applies:
            1.   The employee’s principal place of work is located in the
municipality;
            2.   The employee performed services at one or more presumed
worksite locations in the municipality. For the purposes of this division,
PRESUMED WORKSITE LOCATION means a construction site or other temporary
worksite in this state at which the employer provides services that can
reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20 days in a calendar
year. Services can reasonably be expected by the employer to last more than 20
days if either of the following applies at the time the services commence:
               a.   The nature of the services are such that it will require
more than 20 days of actual services to complete the services; or
               b.   The agreement between the employer and its customer to
perform services at a location requires the employer to perform actual services
at the location for more than 20 days.
            3.   The employee is a resident of the municipality and has
requested that the employer withhold tax from the employee’s qualifying wages
as provided in division (A) of this section; or
            4.   The employee is a professional athlete, professional
entertainer or public figure, and the qualifying wages are paid for the
performance of services in the employee’s capacity as a professional athlete,
professional entertainer or public figure within the municipality.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (B)(2)(a) of this section, an
employee shall be considered to have spent a day performing services in a
municipal corporation only if the employee spent more time performing services
for or on behalf of the employer in that municipal corporation than in any
other municipal corporation on that day. For the purposes of determining the
amount of time an employee spent in a particular location, the time spent
performing one or more of the following activities shall be considered to have
been spent at the employee’s principal place of work:
            1.   Traveling to the location at which the employee will first
perform services for the employer for the day;
            2.   Traveling from a location at which the employee was performing
services for the employer to any other location;
            3.   Traveling from any location to another location in order to
pick up or load, for the purpose of transportation or delivery, property that
has been purchased, sold, assembled, fabricated, repaired, refurbished,
processed, remanufactured or improved by the employee’s employer;
            4.   Transporting or delivering property described in division (B)
(2)(b)3. of this section; provided that, upon delivery of the property, the
employee does not temporarily or permanently affix the property to real estate
owned, used, or controlled by a person other than the employee’s employer; or
            5.   Traveling from the location at which the employee makes the
employee’s final delivery or pick-up for the day to either the employee’s
principal place of work or a location at which the employee will not perform
services for the employer.
      (3)   If the principal place of work of an employee is located in a
municipal corporation that imposes an income tax in accordance with this
chapter, the exception from withholding requirements described in division (B)
(2)(a) of this section shall apply only if, with respect to the employee’s
qualifying wages described in that division, the employer withholds and remits
tax on such qualifying wages to the municipal corporation in which the
employee’s principal place of work is located.
      (4)   (a)   Except as provided in this division (B)(4)(a), if, during a
calendar year, the number of days an employee spends performing personal
services in a municipal corporation exceeds the 20-day threshold described in
division (B)(2)(a) of this section, the employer shall withhold and remit tax
to that municipal corporation for any subsequent days in that calendar year on
which the employer pays qualifying wages to the employee for personal services
performed in that municipal corporation.
         (b)   An employer required to begin withholding tax for a municipal
corporation under division (B)(4)(a) of this section may elect to withhold tax
for that municipal corporation for the first 20 days on which the employer paid
qualifying wages to the employee for personal services performed in that
municipal corporation.
         (c)   If an employer makes the election described in division (B)(4)
(b) of this section, the taxes withheld and paid by such an employer during
those first twenty days to the municipal corporation in which the employee’s
principal place of work is located are refundable to the employee.
      (5)   Without regard to the number of days in a calendar year on which an
employee performs personal services in any municipal corporation, an employer
shall withhold municipal income tax on all of the employee’s qualifying wages
for a taxable year and remit that tax only to the municipal corporation in
which the employer’s fixed location is located if the employer qualifies as a
small employer as defined in §
34.03. To determine whether an employer qualifies as a small employer for a
taxable year, a Tax Administrator may require the employer to provide the Tax
Administrator with the employer’s federal income tax return for the preceding
taxable year.
      (6)   Divisions (B)(2)(a) and (B)(4) of this section shall not apply to
the extent that a Tax Administrator and an employer enter into an agreement
regarding the manner in which the employer shall comply with the requirements
of division (A) of this section.
      (7)   In the case of a person performing personal services at a petroleum
refinery located in a municipal corporation that imposes a tax on income, an
employer is not required to withhold municipal income tax on the qualifying
wages of such a person if the person performs those services on 12 or fewer
days in a calendar year, unless the principal place of work of the employer is
located in another municipal corporation in this state that imposes a tax
applying to compensation paid to the person for services performed on those
days and the person is not liable to that other municipal corporation for tax
on the compensation paid for such services. For the purposes of this division,
a petroleum refinery is a facility with a standard industrial classification
code facility classification of 2911, petroleum refining.
Notwithstanding division (B)(4) of this section, if, during a calendar year,
the number of days an individual performs personal services at a petroleum
refinery exceeds 12, the employer shall withhold tax for the municipal
corporation for the first 12 days for which the employer paid qualifying wages
to the individual and for all subsequent days in the calendar year on which the
individual performed services at the refinery.
   (C)   Collection at source; casino and VLT.
      (1)   The municipality shall require the following persons to withhold
and remit municipal income tax with respect to amounts other than qualifying
wages as provided in this section:
         (a)   A casino facility or a casino operator, as defined in § 6(C)(9)
of Article XV of the Ohio Constitution and R.C. § 3772.01, respectively;
         (b)   A lottery sales agent conducting video lottery terminals on
behalf of the state; and
         (c)   A type B sports gaming proprietor offering sports gaming at a
sports gaming facility.
      (2)   If a person’s winnings at a casino facility are an amount for which
reporting to the Internal Revenue Service of the amount is required by I.R.C. §
6041, as amended, the casino operator shall deduct and withhold municipal
income tax from the person’s winnings at the rate of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation in which the casino facility is located.
      (3)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a casino operator are held in
trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is owed.
         (a)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the casino operator
shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the
municipality, providing the name, address and Social Security number of the
person from whose winnings amounts were deducted and withheld, the amount of
each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar month, the
amount of the winnings from which each such amount was withheld, the type of
casino gaming that resulted in such winnings, and any other information
required by the Tax Administrator. With this return, the casino operator shall
remit electronically to the municipality all amounts deducted and withheld
during the preceding month.
         (b)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall file
an annual return electronically with the Tax Administrator of the municipal
corporation in which the casino facility is located, indicating the total
amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The casino
operator shall remit electronically with the annual return any amount that was
deducted and withheld and that was not previously remitted. If the name,
address or Social Security number of a person or the amount deducted and
withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a monthly return for that
reporting period, that information shall be indicated on the annual return.
         (c)   Annually, on or before January 31, a casino operator shall issue
an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount has been
deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The information
return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted from the
person’s winnings during the preceding year. The casino operator shall provide
to the Tax Administrator a copy of each information return issued under this
division. The Administrator may require that such copies be transmitted
electronically.
         (d)   A casino operator that fails to file a return and remit the
amounts deducted and withheld shall be personally liable for the amount
withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty and
interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
         (e)   If a casino operator sells the casino facility or otherwise
quits the casino business, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any
penalties and interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor
shall withhold an amount of the purchase money that is sufficient to cover the
amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and interest thereon
until the predecessor casino operator produces either of the following:
            1.   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
            2.   a.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that
no amounts are due.
               b.   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
         (f)   The failure of a casino operator to deduct and withhold the
required amount from a person’s winnings does not relieve that person from
liability for the municipal income tax with respect to those winnings.
      (4)   If a person’s prize award from a video lottery terminal is an
amount for which reporting to the Internal Revenue Service is required by
I.R.C. § 6041, as amended, the video lottery sales agent shall deduct and
withhold municipal income tax from the person’s prize award at the rate of the
tax imposed by the municipal corporation in which the video lottery terminal
facility is located.
      (5)   Amounts deducted and withheld by a video lottery sales agent are
held in trust for the benefit of the municipal corporation to which the tax is
owed.
         (a)   The video lottery sales agent shall issue to a person from whose
prize award an amount has been deducted and withheld a receipt for the amount
deducted and withheld, and shall obtain from the person receiving a prize award
the person’s name, address and Social Security number in order to facilitate
the preparation of returns required by this section.
         (b)   On or before the tenth day of each month, the video lottery
sales agent shall file a return electronically with the Tax Administrator of
the municipality providing the names, addresses and Social Security numbers of
the persons from whose prize awards amounts were deducted and withheld, the
amount of each such deduction and withholding during the preceding calendar
month, the amount of the prize award from which each such amount was withheld
and any other information required by the Tax Administrator. With the return,
the video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically to the Tax
Administrator all amounts deducted and withheld during the preceding month.
         (c)   A video lottery sales agent shall maintain a record of all
receipts issued under division (C)(5) of this section and shall make those
records available to the Tax Administrator upon request. Such records shall be
maintained in accordance with R.C. § 5747.17 and any rules adopted pursuant
thereto.
         (d)   Annually, on or before January 31, each video lottery terminal
sales agent shall file an annual return electronically with the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation in which the facility is located
indicating the total amount deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar
year. The video lottery sales agent shall remit electronically with the annual
return any amount that was deducted and withheld and that was not previously
remitted. If the name, address or Social Security number of a person or the
amount deducted and withheld with respect to that person was omitted on a
monthly return for that reporting period, that information shall be indicated
on the annual return.
         (e)   Annually, on or before January 31, a video lottery sales agent
shall issue an information return to each person with respect to whom an amount
has been deducted and withheld during the preceding calendar year. The
information return shall show the total amount of municipal income tax deducted
and withheld from the person’s prize award by the video lottery sales agent
during the preceding year. A video lottery sales agent shall provide to the Tax
Administrator of the municipal corporation a copy of each information return
issued under this division (C)(5). The Tax Administrator may require that such
copies be transmitted electronically.
         (f)   A video lottery sales agent who fails to file a return and remit
the amounts deducted and withheld is personally liable for the amount deducted
and withheld and not remitted. Such personal liability extends to any penalty
and interest imposed for the late filing of a return or the late payment of tax
deducted and withheld.
      (6)   If a video lottery sales agent ceases to operate video lottery
terminals, the amounts deducted and withheld along with any penalties and
interest thereon are immediately due and payable. The successor of the video
lottery sales agent that purchases the video lottery terminals from the agent
shall withhold an amount from the purchase money that is sufficient to cover
the amounts deducted and withheld and any penalties and interest thereon until
the predecessor video lottery sales agent operator produces either of the
following:
         (a)   A receipt from the Tax Administrator showing that the amounts
deducted and withheld and penalties and interest thereon have been paid; or
         (b)   1.   A certificate from the Tax Administrator indicating that no
amounts are due.
            2.   If the successor fails to withhold purchase money, the
successor is personally liable for the payment of the amounts deducted and
withheld and penalties and interest thereon.
      (7)   The failure of a video lottery sales agent to deduct and withhold
the required amount from a person’s prize award does not relieve that person
from liability for the municipal income tax with respect to that prize award.
      (8)   If a casino operator or lottery sales agent files a return late,
fails to file a return, remits amounts deducted and withheld late or fails to
remit amounts deducted and withheld as required under this section, the Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may impose the following applicable
penalty:
         (a)   For the late remittance of, or failure to remit, tax deducted
and withheld under this section, a penalty equal to 50% of the tax deducted and
withheld; and
         (b)   For the failure to file, or the late filing of, a monthly or
annual return, a penalty of $500 for each return not filed or filed late.
Interest shall accrue on past due amounts deducted and withheld at the rate
prescribed in R.C. § 5703.47.
      (9)   Amounts deducted and withheld on behalf of a municipal corporation
shall be allowed as a credit against payment of the tax imposed by the
municipal corporation and shall be treated as taxes paid for purposes of §
34.07. This division applies only to the person for whom the amount is deducted
and withheld.
      (10)   The Tax Administrator shall prescribe the forms of the receipts
and returns required under this section.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Occasional entrant, personal services; withholding, see R.C. § 718.011
   Withholding by casinos and lottery sales agents, see R.C. § 718.031
   Withholding from qualifying wages, see R.C. § 718.03
§ 34.06 INCOME SUBJECT TO NET PROFIT TAX.
   (A)   Determining municipal taxable income for taxpayers who are not
individuals. Municipal taxable income for a taxpayer who is not an individual
for the municipality is calculated as follows: income reduced by exempt income
to the extent otherwise included in income, multiplied by apportionment,
further reduced by any pre-2017 net operating loss carryforward equals
municipal taxable income.
      (1)   INCOME for a taxpayer that is not an individual means the net
profit of the taxpayer.
         (a)   NET PROFIT for a person other than an individual is defined in §
34.03.
         (b)   ADJUSTED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME is defined in §
34.03.
      (2)   EXEMPT INCOME is defined in §
34.03.
      (3)   APPORTIONMENT means the apportionment as determined by §
34.06(B).
      (4)   PRE-2017 NET OPERATING LOSS CARRYFORWARD is defined in §
34.03.
   (B)   Net profit; income subject to net profit tax; alternative
apportionment. This section applies to any taxpayer engaged in a business or
profession in the municipality unless the taxpayer is an individual who resides
in the municipality or the taxpayer is an electric company, combined company or
telephone company that is subject to and required to file reports under R.C.
Chapter 5745.
      (1)   Net profit from a business or profession conducted both within and
without the boundaries of the municipality shall be considered as having a
taxable situs in the municipality for purposes of municipal income taxation in
the same proportion as the average ratio of the following:
         (a)   1.   The average original cost of the real property and tangible
personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in the business or profession
in the municipality during the taxable period to the average original cost of
all of the real and tangible personal property owned or used by the taxpayer in
the business or profession during the same period, wherever situated.
            2.   As used in the preceding division (B)(1)(a)1., tangible
personal or real property shall include property rented or leased by the
taxpayer and the value of such property shall be determined by multiplying the
annual rental thereon by eight.
         (b)   Wages, salaries and other compensation paid during the taxable
period to individuals employed in the business or profession for services
performed in the municipality to wages, salaries and other compensation paid
during the same period to individuals employed in the business or profession,
wherever the individual’s services are performed, excluding compensation from
which taxes are not-required to be withheld under §
34.05(B);
         (c)   Total gross receipts of the business or profession from sales
and rentals made and services performed during the taxable period in the
municipality to total gross receipts of the business or profession during the
same period from sales, rentals and services, wherever made or performed.
      (2)   (a)   If the apportionment factors described in division (B)(1) of
this section do not fairly represent the extent of a taxpayer’s business
activity in the municipality, the taxpayer may request, or the Tax
Administrator of the municipality may require, that the taxpayer use, with
respect to all or any portion of the income of the taxpayer, an alternative
apportionment method involving one or more of the following:
            1.   Separate accounting;
            2.   The exclusion of one or more of the factors;
            3.   The inclusion of one or more additional factors that would
provide for a more fair apportionment of the income of the taxpayer to the
municipality; and/or
            4.   A modification of one or more of the factors.
         (b)   A taxpayer request to use an alternative apportionment method
shall be in writing and shall accompany a tax return, timely filed appeal of an
assessment or timely filed amended tax return. The taxpayer may use the
requested alternative method unless the Tax Administrator denies the request in
an assessment issued within the period prescribed by §
34.19(A).
         (c)   A Tax Administrator may require a taxpayer to use an alternative
apportionment method as described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section only by
issuing an assessment to the taxpayer within the period prescribed by §
34.19(A).
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2) of this section nullifies or
otherwise affects any alternative apportionment arrangement approved by a Tax
Administrator or otherwise agreed upon by both the Tax Administrator and
taxpayer before January 1, 2016.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, wages, salaries and
other compensation includes only wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
an employee for services performed at any of the following locations:
         (a)   A location that is owned, controlled or used by, rented to or
under the possession of one of the following:
            1.   The employer;
            2.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of the employer, or a
related member of such a vendor, customer, client or patient; or
            3.   A vendor, customer, client or patient of a person described in
division (B)(3)(a)2. of this section, or a related member of such a vendor,
customer, client or patient.
         (b)   Any location at which a trial, appeal, hearing, investigation,
inquiry, review, court-martial or similar administrative, judicial or
legislative matter or proceeding is being conducted; provided that the
compensation is paid for services performed for, or on behalf of, the employer
or that the employee’s presence at the location directly or indirectly benefits
the employer; or
         (c)   Any other location, if the Tax Administrator determines that the
employer directed the employee to perform the services at the other location in
lieu of a location described in division (B)(3)(a) or (B)(3)(b) of this section
solely in order to avoid or reduce the employer’s municipal income tax
liability. If a Tax Administrator makes such a determination, the employer may
dispute the determination by establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence,
that the Tax Administrator’s determination was unreasonable.
      (4)   For the purposes of division (B)(1)(c) of this section, receipts
from sales and rentals made and services performed shall be sitused to a
municipal corporation as follows:
         (a)   Gross receipts from the sale of tangible personal property shall
be sitused to the municipal corporation only if, regardless of where title
passes, the property meets either of the following criteria:
            1.   The property is shipped to or delivered within the municipal
corporation from a stock of goods located within the municipal corporation;
            2.   The property is delivered within the municipal corporation
from a location outside the municipal corporation; provided the taxpayer is
regularly engaged through its own employees in the solicitation or promotion of
sales within such municipal corporation and the sales result from such
solicitation or promotion; or
            3.   The property is shipped from a place within the municipal
corporation to purchasers outside the municipal corporation; provided that the
taxpayer is not, through its own employees, regularly engaged in the
solicitation or promotion of sales at the place where delivery is made.
         (b)   Gross receipts from the sale of services shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation to the extent that such services are performed in the
municipal corporation;
         (c)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from the sale
of real property located in the municipal corporation shall be sitused to the
municipal corporation;
         (d)   To the extent included in income, gross receipts from rents and
royalties from real property located in the municipal corporation shall be
sitused to the municipal corporation; and
         (e)   Gross receipts from rents and royalties from tangible personal
property shall be sitused to the municipal corporation based upon the extent to
which the tangible personal property is used in the municipal corporation.
      (5)   (a)   The net profit received by an individual taxpayer from the
rental of real estate owned directly by the individual or by a disregarded
entity owned by the individual shall be subject to tax only by the municipal
corporation in which the property generating the net profit is located and the
municipal corporation in which the individual taxpayer that receives the net
profit resides.
         (b)   A municipal corporation shall allow such taxpayers to elect to
use separate accounting for the purpose of calculating net profit sitused under
this division to the municipal corporation in which the property is located.
      (6)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(6)(b) of this section,
commissions received by a real estate agent or broker relating to the sale,
purchase or lease of real estate shall be sitused to the municipal corporation
in which the real estate is located. Net profit reported by the real estate
agent or broker shall be allocated to a municipal corporation based upon the
ratio of the commissions the agent or broker received from the sale, purchase
or lease of real estate located in the municipal corporation to the commissions
received from the sale, purchase or lease of real estate everywhere in the
taxable year.
         (b)   An individual who is a resident of a municipal corporation that
imposes a municipal income tax shall report the individual’s net profit from
all real estate activity on the individual’s annual tax return for that
municipal corporation. The individual may claim a credit for taxes the
individual paid on such net profit to another municipal corporation to the
extent that such credit is allowed under §
34.08(A).
      (7)   (a)   If, in computing a taxpayer’s adjusted federal taxable
income, the taxpayer deducted any amount with respect to a stock option granted
to an employee, and if the employee is not required to include in the
employee’s income any such amount or a portion thereof because it is exempted
from taxation under §
34.03, by a municipal corporation to which the taxpayer has apportioned a
portion of its net profit, the taxpayer shall add the amount that is exempt
from taxation to the taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to that
municipal corporation. In no case shall a taxpayer be required to add to its
net profit that was apportioned to that municipal corporation any amount other
than the amount upon which the employee would be required to pay tax were the
amount related to the stock option not exempted from taxation.
         (b)   This division applies solely for the purpose of making an
adjustment to the amount of a taxpayer’s net profit that was apportioned to a
municipal corporation under this section.
      (8)   When calculating the ratios described in division (B)(1) of this
section for the purposes of that division or division (B)(2) of this section,
the owner of a disregarded entity shall include in the owner’s ratios the
property, payroll, and gross receipts of such disregarded entity.
   (C)   Consolidated federal income tax return.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (C), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         AFFILIATED GROUP OF CORPORATIONS. An affiliated group as defined in §
1504 of the Internal Revenue Code, except that, if such a group includes at
least one incumbent local exchange carrier that is primarily engaged in the
business of providing local exchange telephone service in this state, the
affiliated group shall not include any incumbent local exchange carrier that
would otherwise be included in the group.
         CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME. The consolidated taxable income
of an affiliated group of corporations, as computed for the purposes of filing
a consolidated federal income tax return, before consideration of net operating
losses or special deductions. CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL TAXABLE INCOME does not
include income or loss of an incumbent local exchange carrier that is excluded
from the affiliated group under this division.
         CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL INCOME TAX RETURN. A consolidated return filed
for federal income tax purposes pursuant to I.R.C. § 1501.
         INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER. The same meaning as in R.C. §
4927.01.
         LOCAL EXCHANGE TELEPHONE SERVICE. The same meaning as in R.C. §
5727.01.
      (2)   (a)   For taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2016, a
taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations may elect to
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year if at least
one member of the affiliated group of corporations is subject to the municipal
income tax in that taxable year and if the affiliated group of corporations
filed a consolidated federal income tax return with respect to that taxable
year.
            1.   The election is binding for a five-year period beginning with
the first taxable year of the initial election unless a change in the reporting
method is required under federal law.
            2.   The election continues to be binding for each subsequent five-
year period unless the taxpayer elects to discontinue filing consolidated
municipal income tax returns under division (C)(2)(a) of this section; or
            3.   A taxpayer receives permission from the Tax Administrator. The
Tax Administrator shall approve such a request for good cause shown.
         (b)   An election to discontinue filing consolidated municipal income
tax returns under this section must be made in the first year following the
last year of a five-year consolidated municipal income tax return election
period in effect under division (C)(2)(a) of this section. The election to
discontinue filing a consolidated municipal income tax return is binding for a
five-year period beginning with the first taxable year of the election.
         (c)   An election made under division (C)(2)(a) or (C)(2)(b) of this
section is binding on all members of the affiliated group of corporations
subject to a municipal income tax.
         (d)   When a taxpayer makes the election allowed under R.C. § 718.80,
a valid election made by the taxpayer under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this
section is binding upon the Tax Commissioner for the remainder of the five-year
period.
         (e)   When an election made under R.C. § 718.80 is terminated, a valid
election made under R.C. § 718.86 is binding upon the Tax Administrator for the
remainder of the five-year period.
      (3)   A taxpayer that is a member of an affiliated group of corporations
that filed a consolidated federal income tax return for a taxable year shall
file a consolidated municipal income tax return for that taxable year if the
Tax Administrator determines, by a preponderance of the evidence, that
intercompany transactions have not been conducted at arm’s length and that
there has been a distortive shifting of income or expenses with regard to
allocation of net profits to the municipal corporation. A taxpayer that is
required to file a consolidated municipal income tax return for a taxable year
shall file a consolidated municipal income tax return for all subsequent
taxable years unless the taxpayer requests and receives written permission from
the Tax Administrator to file a separate return or a taxpayer has experienced a
change in circumstances.
      (4)   A taxpayer shall prepare a consolidated municipal income tax return
in the same manner as is required under the United States Department of
Treasury regulations that prescribe procedures for the preparation of the
consolidated federal income tax return required to be filed by the common
parent of the affiliated group of which the taxpayer is a member.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (C)(5)(b), (C)(5)
(c) and (C)(5)(d), corporations that file a consolidated municipal income tax
return shall compute adjusted federal taxable income, as defined in §
34.03, by substituting consolidated federal taxable income for federal taxable
income wherever federal taxable income appears in that division and by
substituting an affiliated group of corporation’s for a C corporation’s
wherever a C corporation’s appears in that division.
         (b)   No corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make any adjustment otherwise required under §
34.03 to the extent that the item of income or deduction otherwise subject to
the adjustment has been eliminated or consolidated in the computation of
consolidated federal taxable income.
         (c)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having at
least 80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly
or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, the
corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return shall do one of
the following with respect to that pass-through entity’s net profit or loss for
that taxable year:
            1.   Exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in division (B) of this section,
exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in
the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so excluded, the entity
shall be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group; or
            2.   Include the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss in the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purpose of making the computations required in division (B) of this section,
include the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in
the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation. If the entity’s net profit or loss is so included, the entity
shall not be subject to taxation as a separate taxpayer on the basis of the
entity’s net profits that are included in the consolidated federal taxable
income of the affiliated group.
         (d)   If the net profit or loss of a pass-through entity having less
than 80% of the value of its ownership interest owned or controlled, directly
or indirectly, by an affiliated group of corporations is included in that
affiliated group’s consolidated federal taxable income for a taxable year, all
of the following shall apply:
            1.   The corporation filing the consolidated municipal income tax
return shall exclude the pass-through entity’s net profit or loss from the
consolidated federal taxable income of the affiliated group and, for the
purposes of making the computations required in division (B) of this section,
exclude the property, payroll and gross receipts of the pass-through entity in
the computation of the affiliated group’s net profit sitused to a municipal
corporation; and
            2.   The pass-through entity shall be subject to municipal income
taxation as a separate taxpayer in accordance with this chapter on the basis of
the entity’s net profits that would otherwise be included in the consolidated
federal taxable income of the affiliated group.
      (6)   Corporations filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
shall make the computations required under division (B) of this section by
substituting consolidated federal taxable income attributable to for net profit
from wherever net profit from appears in that section and by substituting
affiliated group of corporations for taxpayer wherever taxpayer appears in that
section.
      (7)   Each corporation filing a consolidated municipal income tax return
is jointly and severally liable for any tax, interest, penalties, fines,
charges or other amounts imposed by a municipal corporation in accordance with
this chapter on the corporation, an affiliated group of which the corporation
is a member for any portion of the taxable year, or any one or more members of
such an affiliated group.
      (8)   Corporations and their affiliates that made an election or entered
into an agreement with a municipal corporation before January 1, 2016, to file
a consolidated or combined tax return with such municipal corporation may
continue to file consolidated or combined tax returns in accordance with such
election or agreement for taxable years beginning on and after January 1, 2016.
   (D)   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs in the state. The
municipality, by ordinance, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable credit
against its tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation in the
municipality. If a credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured
as a percentage of the new income tax revenue the municipality derives from new
employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years.
Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a credit, the municipality
and the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of
the credit.
   (E)   Tax credits to foster job retention. The municipality, by ordinance,
may grant a refundable or nonrefundable credit against its tax on income to a
taxpayer for the purpose of fostering job retention in the municipality. If a
credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured as a percentage of
the income tax revenue the municipality derives from the retained employees of
the taxpayer, and shall be for a term not exceeding 15 years. Before the
municipality passes an ordinance allowing such a credit, the municipality and
the taxpayer shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of the
credit.
   (F)   Tax credit for businesses that foster new jobs within Strasburg-
Franklin Joint Economic Development District. The municipality, by ordinance
and with consent of the Board of Directors of the Strasburg-Franklin Joint
Economic Development District, may grant a refundable or nonrefundable credit
against their tax on income to a taxpayer to foster job creation within the
Joint Economic Development District, where such credit is necessary to assist
the taxpayer with extraordinary infrastructure or other development costs. If a
credit is granted under this section, it shall be measured as a percentage of
the new income tax revenue the municipality and the Joint Economic Development
District derive from new employees of the taxpayer and shall be for a term not
exceeding 15 years. Before the municipality passes an ordinance granting a
credit, the municipality, Joint Economic Development District, and the taxpayer
shall enter into an agreement specifying all the conditions of the credit.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015; Ord. O-22-2024, passed 11-5-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Consolidated municipal tax return, see R.C. § 718.06
   Definitions, see R.C. § 718.01
   Fostering job retention; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.151
   Fostering new jobs; tax credits, see R.C. § 718.15
   Income subject to tax, see R.C. § 718.02
§ 34.07 DECLARATION OF ESTIMATED TAX.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ESTIMATED TAXES. The amount that the taxpayer reasonably estimates to be
the taxpayer’s tax liability for a municipal corporation’s income tax for the
current taxable year.
      TAX LIABILITY. The total taxes due to a municipal corporation for the
taxable year, after allowing any credit to which the taxpayer is entitled and
after applying any estimated tax payment, withholding payment, or credit from
another taxable year.
   (B)   (1)   Every taxpayer shall make a declaration of estimated taxes for
the current taxable year, on the form prescribed by the Tax Administrator, if
the amount payable as estimated taxes is at least $200. For the purposes of
this section:
         (a)   Taxes withheld from qualifying wages shall be considered as paid
to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld in equal amounts
on each payment date. If the taxpayer establishes the dates on which all
amounts were actually withheld, the amounts withheld shall be considered as
paid on the dates on which the amounts were actually withheld;
         (b)   An overpayment of tax applied as a credit to a subsequent
taxable year is deemed to be paid on the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the payment is mailed or, if the payment is made by electronic
funds transfer, the date the payment is submitted. As used in this division,
DATE OF THE POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the
cover, the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service;
         (c)   A taxpayer having a taxable year of less than 12 months shall
make a declaration under rules prescribed by the Tax Administrator; and
         (d)   Taxes withheld by a casino operator or video lottery sales
agent, or type B sports gaming proprietor, under R.C. § 718.031 are deemed to
be paid to the municipal corporation for which the taxes were withheld on the
date the taxes are withheld from the taxpayer’s winnings.
      (2)   Taxpayers filing joint returns shall file joint declarations of
estimated taxes.
      (3)   The declaration of estimated taxes shall be filed on or before the
date prescribed for the filing of municipal income tax returns under §
34.09(G) or on or before April 15 of the first taxable year after the taxpayer
becomes subject to tax for the first time.
      (4)   Taxpayers reporting on a fiscal year basis shall file a declaration
on or before April 15 after the beginning of each fiscal year or period.
      (5)   The original declaration or any subsequent amendment may be
increased or decreased on or before any subsequent quarterly payment day as
provided in this section.
   (C)   (1) The required portion of the tax liability for the taxable year
that shall be paid through estimated taxes made payable to the municipality or
Tax Administrator, including the application of tax refunds to estimated taxes
and withholding on or before the applicable payment date, shall be as follows:
         (a)   On or before April 15, 22.5% of the tax liability for the
taxable year;
         (b)   On or before June 15, 45% of the tax liability for the taxable
year;
         (c)   On or before September 15, 67.5% of the tax liability for the
taxable year; and
         (d)   For an individual, on or before the fifteenth day of the first
month of the following taxable year, 90% of the tax liability for the taxable
year. For a person other than an individual, on or before December 15, 90% of
the tax liability for the taxable year.
      (2)   A taxpayer may amend a declaration under rules prescribed by the
Tax Administrator. When an amended declaration has been filed, the unpaid
balance shown due on the amended declaration shall be paid in equal
installments on or before the remaining payment dates. The amended declaration
must be filed on the next applicable due date as outlined in (C)(1)(a) through
(C)(1)(d) of this section.
      (3)   On or before April 15 of the year following that for which the
declaration or amended declaration was filed, an annual return shall be filed
and any balance which may be due shall be paid with the return in accordance
with §
34.09(A).
         (a)   For taxpayers who are individuals, or who are not individuals
and are reporting and filing on a calendar year basis, the annual tax return is
due on the same date as the filing of the federal tax return, unless extended
pursuant to R.C. § 5747.08(G).
         (b)   For taxpayers who are not individuals, and are reporting and
filing on a fiscal year basis or any period other than a calendar year, the
annual return is due on April 15.
      (4)   An amended declaration is required whenever the taxpayer’s
estimated tax liability changes during the taxable year. A change in estimated
tax liability may either increase or decrease the estimated tax liability for
the taxable year.
   (D)   (1)   In the case of any underpayment of any portion of a tax
liability, penalty and interest may be imposed pursuant to §
34.10 upon the amount of underpayment for the period of underpayment, unless
the underpayment is due to reasonable cause as described in division (E) of
this section. The amount of the underpayment shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   For the first payment of estimated taxes each year, 22.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (b)   For the second payment of estimated taxes each year, 45% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment;
         (c)   For the third payment of estimated taxes each year, 67.5% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment; and
         (d)   For the fourth payment of estimated taxes each year, 90% of the
tax liability, less the amount of taxes paid by the date prescribed for that
payment.
      (2)   The period of the underpayment shall run from the day the estimated
payment was required to be made to the date on which the payment is made. For
purposes of this section, a payment of estimated taxes on or before any payment
date shall be considered a payment of any previous underpayment only to the
extent the payment of estimated taxes exceeds the amount of the payment
presently required to be paid to avoid any penalty.
   (E)   An underpayment of any portion of tax liability determined under
division (D) of this section shall be due to reasonable cause and the penalty
imposed by this section shall not be added to the taxes for the taxable year if
any of the following apply:
      (1)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 90% of
the tax liability for the current taxable year, determined by annualizing the
income received during the year up to the end of the month immediately
preceding the month in which the payment is due;
      (2)   The amount of estimated taxes that were paid equals at least 100%
of the tax liability shown on the return of the taxpayer for the preceding
taxable year; provided that the immediately preceding taxable year reflected a
period of 12 months and the taxpayer filed a return with the municipal
corporation under §
34.09(A) for that year; or
      (3)   The taxpayer is an individual who resides in the municipality but
was not domiciled there on January 1 of the calendar year that includes the
first day of the taxable year.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may waive the requirement for filing a declaration
of estimated taxes for any class of taxpayers after finding that the waiver is
reasonable and proper in view of administrative costs and other factors.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Estimated taxes, see R.C. § 718.08
§ 34.08 CREDIT FOR TAX PAID.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Every individual taxpayer who resides in the village who receives
net profits, salaries, wages, commissions or other personal service
compensation for work done or services performed or rendered outside of the
village, if it be made to appear that they have paid a municipal income tax on
the same income taxable under this chapter to another municipality, shall be
allowed a credit of 1% of the amount so paid by them or on their behalf to such
other municipality against the tax imposed by this chapter. The credit shall
not exceed 1% of the tax assessed by this chapter on such income earned in such
other municipality or municipalities where such tax is paid, and any amount
withheld in such other municipality or municipalities above the tax rate
imposed by the village may not be used to credit or off-set any remaining tax
liability owed to the village.
      (2)   A claim for refund or credit under this section shall be made in
such manner as the Administrator may by regulation provide.
   (B)   Refundable credit for qualifying loss.
      (1)   For the purpose of this division (B), the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN. A compensation plan described
in I.R.C. § 3121(v)(2)(C).
         QUALIFYING LOSS.
            1.   Except as provided in division 2. of this definition, the
excess, if any, of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan over the total
amount of income the taxpayer has recognized for federal income tax purposes
for all taxable years on a cumulative basis as compensation with respect to the
taxpayer’s receipt of money and property attributable to distributions in
connection with the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
            2.   If, for one or more taxable years, the taxpayer has not paid
to one or more municipal corporations income tax imposed on the entire amount
of compensation the payment of which is deferred pursuant to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan, then the QUALIFYING LOSS is the product of the
amount resulting from the calculation described in division 1. of this
definition computed without regard to this division and a fraction the
numerator of which is the portion of such compensation on which the taxpayer
has paid income tax to one or more municipal corporations and the denominator
of which is the total amount of compensation the payment of which is deferred
pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
            3.   With respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
taxpayer sustains a qualifying loss only in the taxable year in which the
taxpayer receives the final distribution of money and property pursuant to that
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         QUALIFYING TAX RATE. The applicable tax rate for the taxable year for
the which the taxpayer paid income tax to a municipal corporation with respect
to any portion of the total amount of compensation the payment of which is
deferred pursuant to a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. If different
tax rates applied for different taxable years, then the QUALIFYING TAX RATE is
a weighted average of those different tax rates. The weighted average shall be
based upon the tax paid to the municipal corporation each year with respect to
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(4) of this section, a
refundable credit shall be allowed against the income tax imposed by a
municipal corporation for each qualifying loss sustained by a taxpayer during
the taxable year. The amount of the credit shall be equal to the product of the
qualifying loss and the qualifying tax rate.
         (b)   A taxpayer shall claim the credit allowed under this section
from each municipal corporation to which the taxpayer paid municipal income tax
with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan in one or more
taxable years.
         (c)   If a taxpayer has paid tax to more than one municipal
corporation with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation plan, the
amount of the credit that a taxpayer may claim from each municipal corporation
shall be calculated on the basis of each municipal corporation’s proportionate
share of the total municipal corporation income tax paid by the taxpayer to all
municipal corporations with respect to the nonqualified deferred compensation
plan.
         (d)   In no case shall the amount of the credit allowed under this
section exceed the cumulative income tax that a taxpayer has paid to a
municipal corporation for all taxable years with respect to the nonqualified
deferred compensation plan.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of this section, municipal corporation income
tax that has been withheld with respect to a nonqualified deferred compensation
plan shall be considered to have been paid by the taxpayer with respect to the
nonqualified deferred compensation plan.
         (b)   Any municipal income tax that has been refunded or otherwise
credited for the benefit of the taxpayer with respect to a nonqualified
deferred compensation plan shall not be considered to have been paid to the
municipal corporation by the taxpayer.
      (4)   The credit allowed under this section is allowed only to the extent
the taxpayer’s qualifying loss is attributable to:
         (a)   The insolvency or bankruptcy of the employer who had established
the nonqualified deferred compensation plan; or
         (b)   The employee’s failure or inability to satisfy all of the
employer’s terms and conditions necessary to receive the nonqualified deferred
compensation.
   (C)   Credit for person working in joint economic development district or
zone. A municipality shall grant a credit against its tax on income to a
resident of the municipality who works in a joint economic development zone
created under R.C. § 715.691 or a joint economic development district created
under R.C. §§ 715.70, 715.71 or 715.72 to the same extent that it grants a
credit against its tax on income to its residents who are employed in another
municipal corporation, pursuant to division (A) of this section.
   (D)   Credit for tax beyond statute for obtaining refund.
      (1)   Income tax that has been deposited or paid to the municipality, but
should have been deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, is
allowable by the municipality as a refund, but is subject to the three-year
limitation on refunds as provided in §
34.09(F).
      (2)   Income tax that should have been deposited or paid to the
municipality, but was deposited or paid to another municipal corporation, shall
be subject to collection and recovery by the municipality. To the extent a
refund of such tax or withholding is barred by the limitation on refunds as
provided in §
34.09(F), the municipality will allow a non-refundable credit equal to the tax
or withholding paid to the other municipality against the income tax the
municipality claims is due. If the municipality’s tax rate is higher, the tax
representing the net difference of the tax rates is also subject to collection
by the municipality, along with any penalty and interest accruing during the
period of nonpayment.
      (3)   No carryforward of credit will be permitted when the overpayment is
beyond the three-year limitation for refunding of same as provided in §
34.09(F).
      (4)   Nothing in this section requires a municipality to allow credit for
tax paid to another municipal corporation if the municipality has reduced
credit for tax paid to another municipal corporation. Division (A) of this
section regarding any limitation on credit shall prevail.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Qualifying loss; refundable credit, see R.C. § 718.021
   Second municipality imposing tax after time period for refund, see R.C. §
718.121
   Worker in joint economic development zone or district, see R.C. § 718.16
§ 34.09 ANNUAL RETURN.
   (A)   Return and payment of tax.
      (1)   (a)   An annual return with respect to the income tax levied on
municipal taxable income by the municipality shall be completed and filed by
every taxpayer for any taxable year for which the taxpayer is subject to the
tax, regardless of whether or not income tax is due.
         (b)   All resident individual taxpayers, 18 years of age and older,
together with any resident of the village who has earned income regardless of
their age, shall file an annual municipal income tax return with the
municipality, regardless of income or liability.
      (2)   If an individual is deceased, any return or notice required of that
individual shall be completed and filed by that decedent’s executor,
administrator or other person charged with the property of that decedent.
      (3)   If an individual is unable to complete and file a return or notice
required by the municipality in accordance with this chapter, the return or
notice required of that individual shall be completed and filed by the
individual’s duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other
person charged with the care of the person or property of that individual. Such
duly authorized agent, guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person charged
with the care of the person or property of that individual shall provide, with
the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to support that they are
authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the taxpayer. This notice
shall include any legally binding authorizations, and contact information
including name, address and phone number of the duly authorized agent,
guardian, conservator, fiduciary or other person.
      (4)   Returns or notices required of an estate or a trust shall be
completed and filed by the fiduciary of the estate or trust. Such fiduciary
shall provide, with the filing of the return, appropriate documentation to
support that they are authorized to file a return or notice on behalf of the
taxpayer. This notice shall include any legally binding authorizations, and
contact information including name, address and phone number of the fiduciary.
      (5)   No municipal corporation shall deny spouses the ability to file a
joint return.
      (6)   (a)   Each return required to be filed under this section shall
contain the signature of the taxpayer or the taxpayer’s duly authorized agent
and of the person who prepared the return for the taxpayer, and shall include
the taxpayer’s Social Security number or taxpayer identification number. Each
return shall be verified by a declaration under penalty of perjury.
         (b)   A taxpayer who is an individual is required to include, with
each annual return, amended return or request for refund required under this
section, copies of only the following documents: all of the taxpayer’s Internal
Revenue Service form W-2, wage and tax statements, including all information
reported on the taxpayer’s federal W-2, as well as taxable wages reported or
withheld for any municipal corporation; the taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service
Form 1040 and, with respect to an amended tax return or refund request, any
other documentation necessary to support the refund request or the adjustments
made in the amended return. An individual taxpayer who files the annual return
required by this section electronically is not required to provide paper copies
of any of the foregoing to the Tax Administrator unless the Tax Administrator
requests such copies after the return has been filed.
         (c)   A taxpayer that is not an individual is required to include,
with each annual net profit return, amended net profit return or request for
refund required under this section, copies of only the following documents: the
taxpayer’s Internal Revenue Service Form 1041, Form 1065, Form 1120, Form 1120-
REIT, Form 1120F or Form 1120S and, with respect to an amended tax return or
refund request, any other documentation necessary to support the refund request
or the adjustments made in the amended return.
         (d)   A taxpayer that is not an individual and that files an annual
net profit return electronically through the state business gateway or in some
other manner shall either mail the documents required under this division to
the Tax Administrator at the time of filing or, if electronic submission is
available, submit the documents electronically through the state business
gateway or a portal provided by municipality. The Department of Taxation shall
publish a method of electronically submitting the documents required under this
division through the state business gateway on or before January 1, 2016. The
Department shall transmit all documents submitted electronically under this
division to the appropriate Tax Administrator.
         (e)   After a taxpayer files a tax return, the Tax Administrator shall
request, and the taxpayer shall provide, any information, statements or
documents required by the municipality to determine and verify the taxpayer’s
municipal income tax liability. The requirements imposed under division (A)(6)
of this section apply regardless of whether the taxpayer files on a generic
form or on a form prescribed by the Tax Administrator.
         (f)   Any other documentation, including schedules, other municipal
income tax returns or other supporting documentation necessary to verify
credits, income, losses or other pertinent factors on the return shall also be
included to avoid delay in processing, or disallowance by the Tax Administrator
of undocumented credits or losses.
      (7)   (a)   1.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each
individual income tax return required to be filed under this section shall be
completed and filed as required by the Tax Administrator on or before the date
prescribed for the filing of state individual income tax returns under R.C. §
5747.08(G). The taxpayer shall complete and file the return or notice on forms
prescribed by the Tax Administrator or on generic forms, together with
remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax Administrator.
            2.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each annual net
profit income tax return required to be filed under this section by a taxpayer
that is not an individual shall be completed and filed as required by the Tax
Administrator on or before the fifteenth day of the fourth month following the
end of the taxpayer’s taxable year or period. The taxpayer shall complete and
file the return or notice on forms prescribed by the tax administrator or on
generic forms, together with remittance made payable to the municipality or Tax
Administrator.
            3.   In the case of individual income tax return required to be
filed by an individual, and net profit income tax return required to be filed
by a taxpayer who is not an individual, no remittance is required if the amount
shown to be due is $10 or less.
         (b)   If the Tax Administrator considers it necessary in order to
ensure the payment of the tax imposed by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter, the Tax Administrator may require taxpayers to file returns and
make payments otherwise than as provided in this section, including taxpayers
not otherwise required to file annual returns.
         (c)   With respect to taxpayers to whom division (B) of this section
applies, to the extent that any provision in this division conflicts with any
provision in division (B) of this section, the provision in division (B) of
this section prevails.
      (8)   (a)   For taxable years beginning after 2015, the municipality
shall not require a taxpayer to remit tax with respect to net profits if the
amount due is $10 or less.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (A)(8)(c) of this section, any
taxpayer not required to remit tax to the municipality for a taxable year
pursuant to division (A)(8)(a) of this section shall file with the municipality
an annual net profit return under divisions (A)(6)(c) and (A)(6)(d) of this
section.
         (c)   A municipal corporation shall not require a person to file a net
profit return under this section if the person’s income consists exclusively of
exempt income described in R.C. § 718.01(C)(20)(a).
      (9)   This division (A)(9) shall not apply to payments required to be
made under §
34.05(A)(2)(a)2. of this chapter.
         (a)   If any report, claim, statement or other document required to be
filed, or any payment required to be made, within a prescribed period or on or
before a prescribed date under this chapter is delivered after that period or
that to the Tax Administrator or other municipal official with which the
report, claim, statement or other document is required to be filed, or to which
the payment is required to be made, the date of the postmark stamped on the
cover in which the report, claim, statement or other document or payment is
mailed shall be deemed to be the date of delivery or the date of payment. THE
DATE OF POSTMARK means, in the event there is more than one date on the cover,
the earliest date imprinted on the cover by the postal service.
         (b)   If a payment is required to be made by electronic funds
transfer, the payment is considered to be made when the payment is credited to
an account designated by the Tax Administrator for the receipt of tax payments,
except that, when a payment made by electronic funds transfer is delayed due to
circumstances not under the control of the taxpayer, the payment is considered
to be made when the taxpayer submitted the payment. For purposes of this
section, SUBMITTED THE PAYMENT means the date which the taxpayer has designated
for the delivery of payment, which may or may not be the same date as the date
the payment was initiated by the taxpayer.
      (10)   The amounts withheld for the municipality by an employer, the
agent of an employer or other payer as described in §
34.05(A) of this chapter shall be allowed to the recipient of the compensation
as credits against payment of the tax imposed on the recipient unless the
amounts withheld were not remitted to the municipality and the recipient
colluded with the employer, agent or other payer in connection with the failure
to remit the amounts withheld.
      (11)   Each return required by the municipality to be filed in accordance
with this section shall include a box that the taxpayer may check to authorize
another person, including a tax return preparer who prepared the return, to
communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters pertaining to the return.
The return or instructions accompanying the return shall indicate that by
checking the box the taxpayer authorizes the Tax Administrator to contact the
preparer or other person concerning questions that arise during the examination
or other review of the return and authorizes the preparer or other person only
to provide the Tax Administrator with information that is missing from the
return, to contact the Tax Administrator for information about the examination
or other review of the return or the status of the taxpayer’s refund or
payments, and to respond to notices about mathematical errors, off-sets or
return preparation that the taxpayer has received from the Tax Administrator
and has shown to the preparer or other person. Authorization by the taxpayer of
another person to communicate with the Tax Administrator about matters
pertaining to the return does not preclude the Tax Administrator from
contacting the taxpayer regarding such matters.
      (12)   The Tax Administrator of the municipality shall accept for filing
a generic form of any income tax return, report or document required by the
municipality in accordance with this chapter; provided that the generic form,
once completed and filed, contains all of the information required by
ordinances, resolutions or rules adopted by the municipality or Tax
Administrator; and provided that the taxpayer or tax return preparer filing the
generic form otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and of the
municipality’s ordinance or resolution governing the filing of returns, reports
or documents.
      (13)   When income tax returns, reports or other documents require the
signature of a tax return preparer, the Tax Administrator shall accept a
facsimile of such a signature in lieu of a manual signature.
      (14)   (a)   As used in this division, WORKSITE LOCATION has the same
meaning as in section §
34.05(B) of this chapter.
         (b)   A person may notify the Tax Administrator that the person does
not expect to be a taxpayer with respect to the municipal corporation for a
taxable year if both of the following conditions apply:
            1.   The person was required to file a tax return with the
municipal corporation for the immediately preceding taxable year because the
person performed services at a worksite location within the municipal
corporation, and the person has filed all appropriate and required returns and
remitted all applicable income tax and withholding payments as provided by this
chapter. The Tax Administrator is not required to accept an affidavit from a
taxpayer who has not complied with the provisions of this chapter.
            2.   a.   The person no longer provides services in the municipal
corporation, and does not expect to be subject to the municipal corporation’s
income tax for the taxable year.
               b.   The person shall provide the notice in a signed affidavit
that briefly explains the person’s circumstances, including the location of the
previous worksite location and the last date on which the person performed
services or made any sales within the municipal corporation. The affidavit also
shall include the following statement: “The affiant has no plans to perform any
services within the municipal corporation, make any sales in the municipal
corporation or otherwise become subject to the tax levied by the municipal
corporation during the taxable year. If the affiant does become subject to the
tax levied by the municipal corporation for the taxable year, the affiant
agrees to be considered a taxpayer and to properly register as a taxpayer with
the municipal corporation, if such a registration is required by the municipal
corporation’s resolutions, ordinances, or rules”. The person shall sign the
affidavit under penalty of perjury.
            3.   If a person submits an affidavit described in division (B)(14)
(b) of this section, the Tax Administrator shall not require the person to file
any tax return for the taxable year unless the Tax Administrator possesses
information that conflicts with the affidavit or if the circumstances described
in the affidavit change, or the taxpayer has engaged in activity which results
in work being performed, services provided, sales made or other activity that
results in municipal taxable income reportable to the municipality in the
taxable year. It shall be the responsibility of the taxpayer to comply with the
provisions of this chapter relating to the reporting and filing of municipal
taxable income on an annual municipal income tax return, even if an affidavit
has been filed with the Tax Administrator for the taxable year. Nothing in
division (B)(14) of this section prohibits the Tax Administrator from
performing an audit of the person.
   (B)   Return and payment of tax; individuals serving in combat zone.
      (1)   Each member of the national guard of any state and each member of a
reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to active
duty pursuant to an executive order issued by the President of the United
States or an act of the Congress of the United States, and each civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces, may apply to the Tax Administrator of the
municipality for both an extension of time for filing of the return and an
extension of time for payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter during the period of the member’s or civilian’s
duty service and for 180 days thereafter. The application shall be filed on or
before the one hundred eightieth day after the member’s or civilian’s duty
terminates. An applicant shall provide such evidence as the Tax Administrator
considers necessary to demonstrate eligibility for the extension.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the Tax Administrator shall
enter into a contract with the applicant for the payment of the tax in
installments that begin on the one hundred eighty-first day after the
applicant’s active duty or service terminates. Except as provided in division
(B)(2)(c) of this section, the Tax Administrator may prescribe such contract
terms as the Tax Administrator considers appropriate.
         (b)   If the Tax Administrator ascertains that an applicant is
qualified for an extension under this section, the applicant shall neither be
required to file any return, report or other tax document nor be required to
pay any tax otherwise due to the municipality before the one hundred eighty-
first day after the applicant’s active duty or service terminates.
         (c)   Taxes paid pursuant to a contract entered into under division
(B)(2)(a) of this section are not delinquent. The Tax Administrator shall not
require any payments of penalties or interest in connection with those taxes
for the extension period.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division denies to any person described in
this division the application of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section.
         (b)   1.   A qualifying taxpayer who is eligible for an extension
under the Internal Revenue Code shall receive both an extension of time in
which to file any return, report or other tax document and an extension of time
in which to make any payment of taxes required by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter. The length of any extension granted under this
subsection shall be equal to the length of the corresponding extension that the
taxpayer receives under the Internal Revenue Code. As used in this
section, QUALIFYING TAXPAYER means a member of the National Guard or a member
of a reserve component of the Armed Forces of the United States called to
active duty pursuant to either an executive order issued by the President of
the United States or an act of the Congress of the United States, or a civilian
serving as support personnel in a combat zone or contingency operation in
support of the Armed Forces.
            2.   Taxes the payment of which is extended in accordance with
division (B)(3)(b)1. of this section are not delinquent during the extension
period. Such taxes become delinquent on the first day after the expiration of
the extension period if the taxes are not paid prior to that date. The Tax
Administrator shall not require any payment of penalties or interest in
connection with those taxes for the extension period. The Tax Administrator
shall not include any period of extension granted under division (B)(3)(b)1. of
this section in calculating the penalty or interest due on any unpaid tax.
      (4)   For each taxable year to which divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3)
of this section applies to a taxpayer, the provisions of divisions (B)(2)(a)
and (B)(3) or (B)(3) of this section, as applicable, apply to the spouse of
that taxpayer if the filing status of the spouse and the taxpayer is married
filing jointly for that year.
   (C)   Use of Ohio Business Gateway; types of filings authorized.
      (1)   Any taxpayer subject to municipal income taxation with respect to
the taxpayer’s net profit from a business or profession may file any municipal
income tax return or, estimated municipal income tax return or extension for
filing a municipal income tax return, and may make payment of amounts shown to
be due on such returns, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (2)   Any employer, agent of an employer or other payer may report the
amount of municipal income tax withheld from qualifying wages, and may make
remittance of such amounts, by using the Ohio Business Gateway.
      (3)   Nothing in this section affects the due dates for filing employer
withholding tax returns or deposit of any required tax.
      (4)   The use of the Ohio Business Gateway by municipal corporations,
taxpayers or other persons does not affect the legal rights of municipalities
or taxpayers as otherwise permitted by law. The state shall not be a party to
the administration of municipal income taxes or to an appeal of a municipal
income tax matter, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or removing
the authority of any municipal corporation to administer, audit and enforce the
provisions of its municipal income tax.
   (D)   Extension of time to file.
      (1)   Any taxpayer that has duly requested an automatic six-month
extension for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be
October 15 to which the return relates.
      (2)   Any taxpayer that qualifies for an automatic federal extension for
a period other than six months for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax
return shall automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal
income tax return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return
shall be the same as that of the extended federal income tax return.
      (3)   A taxpayer that has not requested or received a six-month extension
for filing the taxpayer’s federal income tax return may request that the Tax
Administrator grant the taxpayer a six-month extension of the date for filing
the taxpayer’s municipal income tax return. If the request is received by the
Tax Administrator on or before the date the municipal income tax return is due,
the Tax Administrator shall grant the taxpayer’s requested extension.
      (4)   An extension of time to file under this chapter is not an extension
of the time to pay any tax due unless the Tax Administrator grants an extension
of that date.
      (5)   If the State Tax Commissioner extends for all taxpayers the date
for filing state income tax returns under R.C. § 5747.08(G), a taxpayer shall
automatically receive an extension for the filing of a municipal income tax
return. The extended due date of the municipal income tax return shall be the
same as the extended due date of the state income tax return.
   (E)   Amended returns.
      (1)   (a)   A taxpayer shall file an amended return with the Tax
Administrator in such form as the Tax Administrator requires if any of the
facts, figures, computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual
return to determine the tax due levied by the municipality in accordance with
this chapter must be altered.
         (b)   Within 60 days after the final determination of any federal or
state tax liability affecting the taxpayer’s municipal tax liability, that
taxpayer shall make and file an amended municipal return showing income subject
to the municipal income tax based upon such final determination of federal or
state tax liability, and pay any additional municipal income tax shown due
thereon or make a claim for refund of any overpayment, unless the tax or
overpayment is $10 or less.
         (c)   If a taxpayer intends to file an amended consolidated municipal
income tax return, or to amend its type of return from a separate return to a
consolidated return, based on the taxpayer’s consolidated federal income tax
return, the taxpayer shall notify the Tax Administrator before filing the
amended return.
      (2)   (a)   In the case of an underpayment, the amended return shall be
accompanied by payment of any combined additional tax due together with any
penalty and interest thereon. If the combined tax shown to be due is $10 or
less, such amount need not accompany the amended return. Except as provided
under this subsection, the amended return shall not reopen those facts,
figures, computations or attachments from a previously filed return that are
not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the
taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return unless the applicable statute of
limitations for civil actions or prosecutions under §
34.19 of this chapter has not expired for a previously filed return.
         (b)   The additional tax to be paid shall not exceed the amount of tax
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
      (3)   (a)   In the case of an overpayment, a request for refund may be
filed under this division within the period prescribed by §
34.19(E) of this chapter for filing the amended return even if it is filed
beyond the period prescribed in that division if it otherwise conforms to the
requirements of that division. If the amount of the refund is $10 or less, no
refund need be paid by the municipality to the taxpayer. Except as set forth in
this subsection, a request filed under this division shall claim refund of
overpayments resulting from alterations to only those facts, figures,
computations or attachments required in the taxpayer’s annual return that are
affected, either directly or indirectly, by the adjustment to the taxpayer’s
federal or state income tax return unless it is also filed within the time
prescribed in division (F) of this section. Except as set forth in this
subsection, the request shall not reopen those facts, figures, computations or
attachments that are not affected, either directly or indirectly, by the
adjustment to the taxpayer’s federal or state income tax return.
         (b)   The amount to be refunded shall not exceed the amount of refund
that would be due if all facts, figures, computations and attachments were
reopened.
   (F)   Refunds.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a request for a refund, the Tax Administrator of
the municipality, in accordance with this section, shall refund to employers,
agents of employers, other payers or taxpayers, with respect to any income or
withholding tax levied by the municipality:
         (a)   Overpayments of more than $10; and
         (b)   Amounts paid erroneously if the refund requested exceeds $10.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, returns setting
forth a request for refund shall be filed with the Tax Administrator, within
three years after the tax was due or paid, whichever is later. Any
documentation that substantiates the taxpayer’s claim for a refund must be
included with the return filing. Failure to remit all documentation, including
schedules, other municipal income tax returns or other supporting documentation
necessary to verify credits, income, losses or other pertinent factors on the
return will cause delay in processing, and/or disallowance of undocumented
credits or losses.
         (b)   On filing of the refund request, the Tax Administrator shall
determine the amount of refund due and certify such amount to the appropriate
municipal corporation official for payment. Except as provided in division (F)
(2)(a) of this section, the Administrator shall issue an assessment to any
taxpayer whose request for refund is fully or partially denied. The assessment
shall state the amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the
denial and instructions for appealing the assessment.
         (c)   If a Tax Administrator denies in whole or in part a refund
request included within the taxpayer’s originally filed annual income tax
return, the Tax Administrator shall notify the taxpayer, in writing, of the
amount of the refund that was denied, the reasons for the denial and
instructions for requesting an assessment that may be appealed under §
34.18 of this chapter.
      (3)   A request for a refund that is received after the last day for
filing specified in division (F)(2) of this section shall be considered to have
been filed in a timely manner if any of the following situations exist:
         (a)   The request is delivered by the postal service, and the earliest
postal service postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed is not
later than the last day for filing the request;
         (b)   The request is delivered by the postal service, the only
postmark on the cover in which the request is enclosed was affixed by a private
postal meter, the date of that postmark is not later than the last day for
filing the request and the request is received within seven days of such last
day; and
         (c)   The request is delivered by the postal service, no postmark date
was affixed to the cover in which the request is enclosed or the date of the
postmark so affixed is not legible and the request is received within seven
days of the last day for making the request.
      (4)   Interest shall be allowed and paid on any overpayment by a taxpayer
of any municipal income tax obligation from the date of the overpayment until
the date of the refund of the overpayment, except that if any overpayment is
refunded within 90 days after the final filing date of the annual return or 90
days after the completed return is filed, whichever is later, no interest shall
be allowed on the refund. For the purpose of computing the payment of interest
on amounts overpaid, no amount of tax for any taxable year shall be considered
to have been paid before the date on which the return on which the tax is
reported is due, without regard to any extension of time for filing that
return. Interest shall be paid at the interest rate described in §
34.10(A)(4).
      (5)   As used in this section, WITHHOLDING TAX has the same meaning as in
§
34.10 of this chapter.
   (G)   A municipal corporation shall not require a qualifying employee whose
income consists exclusively of exempt income described in R.C. § 718.01(C)(20)
(b) or (C)(20)(c) to file a return under this section.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Amended returns, see R.C. § 718.41
   Annual return; filing; extensions, see R.C. § 718.05
   Filing extension for certain armed forces service, see R.C. § 718.052
   Limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
   Requests for refunds, see R.C. § 718.19
   Use of Ohio Business Gateway, see R.C. § 718.051
§ 34.10 PENALTY, INTEREST, FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICABLE LAW. This chapter, the resolutions, ordinances, codes,
directives, instructions and rules adopted by the municipality; provided such
resolutions, ordinances, codes, directives, instructions and rules impose or
directly or indirectly address the levy, payment, remittance or filing
requirements of a municipal income tax.
      FEDERAL SHORT-TERM RATE. The rate of the average market yield on
outstanding marketable obligations of the United States with remaining periods
to maturity of three years or less, as determined under I.R.C. § 1274, for July
of the current year.
      INCOME TAX, ESTIMATED INCOME TAX and WITHHOLDING TAX. Any income tax,
estimated income tax and withholding tax imposed by a municipal corporation
pursuant to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      INTEREST RATE AS DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION. The federal
short-term rate, rounded to the nearest whole number percent, plus 5%. The rate
shall apply for the calendar year next following the July of the year in which
the federal short-term rate is determined in accordance with division (A)(2) of
this section.
      RETURN. Any tax return, report, reconciliation, schedule and other
document required to be filed with a Tax Administrator or municipal corporation
by a taxpayer, employer, any agent of the employer or any other payer pursuant
to applicable law, including at any time before January 1, 2016.
      UNPAID ESTIMATED INCOME TAX. Estimated income tax due but not paid by the
date the tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID INCOME TAX. Income tax due but not paid by the date the income tax
is required to be paid under applicable law.
      UNPAID WITHHOLDING TAX. Withholding tax due but not paid by the date the
withholding tax is required to be paid under applicable law.
      WITHHOLDING TAX. Amounts an employer, any agent of an employer or any
other payer did not withhold in whole or in part from an employee’s qualifying
wages, but that, under applicable law, the employer, agent or other payer is
required to withhold from an employee’s qualifying wages.
   (B)   (1)   This section shall apply to the following:
         (a)   Any return required to be filed under applicable law for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1, 2016; and
         (b)   Income tax, estimated income tax and withholding tax required to
be paid or remitted to the municipality on or after January 1, 2016 for taxable
years beginning on or after January 1,2016.
      (2)   This section does not apply to returns required to be filed or
payments required to be made before January 1, 2016, regardless of the filing
or payment date. Returns required to be filed or payments required to be made
before January 1, 2016, but filed or paid after that date shall be subject to
the ordinances or rules, as adopted from time to time before January 1, 2016 of
this municipality.
   (C)   The municipality shall impose on a taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer and any other payer, and will attempt to collect, the interest
amounts and penalties prescribed in this section when the taxpayer, employer,
any agent of the employer or any other payer for any reason fails, in whole or
in part, to make to the municipality timely and full payment or remittance of
income tax, estimated income tax or withholding tax or to file timely with the
municipality any return required to be filed.
      (1)   Interest shall be imposed at the rate defined as INTEREST RATE AS
DESCRIBED IN DIVISION (A) OF THIS SECTION, per annum, on all unpaid income tax,
unpaid estimated income tax and unpaid withholding tax. This imposition of
interest shall be assessed per month, or fraction of a month.
      (2)   With respect to unpaid income tax and unpaid estimated income tax,
a penalty equal to 15% of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (3)   With respect to any unpaid withholding tax, a penalty equal to 50%
of the amount not timely paid shall be imposed.
      (4)   With respect to returns other than estimated income tax returns,
the municipality shall impose a monthly penalty of $25 for each failure to
timely file each return, regardless of the liability shown thereon for each
month, or any fraction thereof, during which the return remains unfiled
regardless of the liability shown thereon. The penalty shall not exceed a total
of $150 in assessed penalty for each failure to timely file a return.
   (D)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not impose, seek to collect or
collect any penalty, amount of interest, charges or additional fees not
described in this section.
   (E)   With respect to income taxes, estimated income taxes, withholding
taxes and returns, the municipality shall not refund or credit any penalty,
amount of interest, charges or additional fees that were properly imposed or
collected before January 1, 2016.
   (F)   The Tax Administrator may, in the Tax Administrator’s sole discretion,
abate or partially abate penalties or interest imposed under this section when
the Tax Administrator deems such abatement or partial abatement to be
appropriate. Such abatement or partial abatement shall be properly documented
and maintained on the record of the taxpayer who received benefit of such
abatement or partial abatement.
   (G)   The municipality may impose on the taxpayer, employer, any agent of
the employer or any other payer the municipality’s post-judgment collection
costs and fees, including attorney’s fees.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Interest and penalties, see R.C. § 718.27
§ 34.11 AUDIT.
   (A)   At or before the commencement of an audit, as defined in §
34.03, the Tax Administrator shall provide to the taxpayer a written
description of the roles of the Tax Administrator and of the taxpayer during an
audit and a statement of the taxpayer’s rights, including any right to obtain a
refund of an overpayment of tax. At or before the commencement of an audit, the
Tax Administrator shall inform the taxpayer when the audit is considered to
have commenced.
   (B)   Except in cases involving suspected criminal activity, the Tax
Administrator shall conduct an audit of a taxpayer during regular business
hours and after providing reasonable notice to the taxpayer. A taxpayer who is
unable to comply with a proposed time for an audit on the grounds that the
proposed time would cause inconvenience or hardship must offer reasonable
alternative dates for the audit.
   (C)   (1)   At all stages of an audit by the Tax Administrator, a taxpayer
is entitled to be assisted or represented by an attorney, accountant,
bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. The Tax Administrator shall prescribe a
form by which a taxpayer may designate such a person to assist or represent the
taxpayer in the conduct of any proceedings resulting from actions by the Tax
Administrator. If a taxpayer has not submitted such a form, the Tax
Administrator may accept other evidence, as the Tax Administrator considers
appropriate, that a person is the authorized representative of a taxpayer.
      (2)   A taxpayer may refuse to answer any questions asked by the person
conducting an audit until the taxpayer has an opportunity to consult with the
taxpayer’s attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner. This
division does not authorize the practice of law by a person who is not an
attorney.
   (D)   A taxpayer may record, electronically or otherwise, the audit
examination.
   (E)   The failure of the Tax Administrator to comply with a provision of
this section shall neither excuse a taxpayer from payment of any taxes owed by
the taxpayer nor cure any procedural defect in a taxpayer’s case.
   (F)   If the Tax Administrator fails to substantially comply with the
provisions of this section, the Tax Administrator, upon application by the
taxpayer, shall excuse the taxpayer from penalties and interest arising from
the audit.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
§ 34.12 ROUNDING.
   A person may round to the nearest whole dollar all amounts the person is
required to enter on any return, report, voucher or other document required
under this chapter. Any fractional part of a dollar that equals or exceeds
$0.50 shall be rounded to the next whole dollar, and any fractional part of a
dollar that is less than $0.50 shall be dropped, rounding down to the nearest
whole dollar. If a person chooses to round amounts entered on a document, the
person shall round all amounts entered on the document.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Rounding of amounts, see R.C. § 718.25
§ 34.13 AUTHORITY AND POWERS OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Authority of Tax Administrator; administrative powers of the Tax
Administrator. The Tax Administrator has the authority to perform all duties
and functions necessary and appropriate to implement the provisions of this
chapter, including without limitation:
      (1)   Exercise all powers whatsoever of an inquisitorial nature as
provided by law, including, the right to inspect books, accounts, records,
memorandums, and federal and state income tax returns, to examine persons under
oath, to issue orders or subpoenas for the production of books, accounts,
papers, records, documents and testimony, to take depositions, to apply to a
court for attachment proceedings as for contempt, to approve vouchers for the
fees of officers and witnesses, and to administer oaths; provided that the
powers referred to in this division of this section shall be exercised by the
Tax Administrator only in connection with the performance of the duties
respectively assigned to the Tax Administrator under a municipal corporation
income tax ordinance or resolution adopted in accordance with this chapter;
      (2)   Appoint agents and prescribe their powers and duties;
      (3)   Confer and meet with officers of other municipal corporations and
states and officers of the United States on any matters pertaining to their
respective official duties as provided by law;
      (4)   Exercise the authority provided by law, including orders from
bankruptcy courts, relative to remitting or refunding taxes, including
penalties and interest thereon, illegally or erroneously imposed or collected,
or for any other reason overpaid, and, in addition, the Tax Administrator may
investigate any claim of overpayment and make a written statement of the Tax
Administrator’s findings, and, if the Tax Administrator finds that there has
been an overpayment, approve and issue a refund payable to the taxpayer, the
taxpayer’s assigns or legal representative as provided in this chapter;
      (5)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to consenting to
the compromise and settlement of tax claims;
      (6)   Exercise the authority provided by law relative to the use of
alternative apportionment methods by taxpayers in accordance with §
34.06(B) of this chapter;
      (7)   Make all tax findings, determinations, computations, assessments
and orders the Tax Administrator is by law authorized and required to make and,
pursuant to time limitations provided by law, on the Tax Administrator’s own
motion, review, redetermine or correct any tax findings, determinations,
computations, assessments or orders the Tax Administrator has made, but the Tax
Administrator shall not review, redetermine or correct any tax finding,
determination, computation, assessment or order which the Tax Administrator has
made for which an appeal has been filed with the Local Board of Tax Review or
other appropriate tribunal, unless such appeal or application is withdrawn by
the appellant or applicant, is dismissed, or is otherwise final;
      (8)   Destroy any or all returns or other tax documents in the manner
authorized by law; and
      (9)   Enter into an agreement with a taxpayer to simplify the withholding
obligations described in this chapter.
   (B)   Authority of Tax Administrator; compromise of claim and payment over
time.
      (1)   As used in this section, CLAIM means a claim for an amount payable
to the municipality that arises pursuant to the municipal income tax imposed in
accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may do either of the following if such action
is in the best interests of the municipality:
         (a)   Compromise a claim; and
         (b)   Extend for a reasonable period the time for payment of a claim
by agreeing to accept monthly or other periodic payments, upon such terms and
conditions as the Tax Administrator may require.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s rejection of a compromise or payment-over-
time agreement proposed by a person with respect to a claim shall not be
appealable.
      (4)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a claim
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of only the parties to the
compromise or agreement, and shall not extinguish or otherwise affect the
liability of any other person.
      (5)   (a)   A compromise or payment-over-time agreement with respect to a
claim shall be void if the taxpayer defaults under the compromise or agreement
or if the compromise or agreement was obtained by fraud or by misrepresentation
of a material fact. Any amount that was due before the compromise or agreement
and that is unpaid shall remain due, and any penalties or interest that would
have accrued in the absence of the compromise or agreement shall continue to
accrue and be due.
         (b)   The Tax Administrator shall have sole discretion to determine
whether or not penalty, interest, charges or applicable fees will be assessed
through the duration of any compromise or payment-over-time agreement.
      (6)   The Tax Administrator may require that the taxpayer provide
detailed financial documentation and information, in order to determine whether
or not a payment-over-time agreement will be authorized. The taxpayer’s failure
to provide the necessary and required information by the Tax Administrator
shall preclude consideration of a payment-over-time agreement.
   (C)   Authority of Tax Administrator; right to examine.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator, or any authorized agent or employee thereof
may examine the books, papers, records, and federal and state income tax
returns of any employer, taxpayer or other person that is subject to, or that
the Tax Administrator believes is subject to, the provisions of this chapter
for the purpose of verifying the accuracy of any return made or, if no return
was filed, to ascertain the tax due under this chapter. Upon written request by
the Tax Administrator or a duly authorized agent or employee thereof, every
employer, taxpayer or other person subject to this section is required to
furnish the opportunity for the Tax Administrator, authorized agent or employee
to investigate and examine such books, papers, records, and federal and state
income tax returns at a reasonable time and place designated in the request.
      (2)   The records and other documents of any taxpayer, employer or other
person that is subject to, or that a Tax Administrator believes is subject to,
the provisions of this chapter shall be open to the Tax Administrator’s
inspection during business hours and shall be preserved for a period of six
years following the end of the taxable year to which the records or documents
relate, unless the Tax Administrator, in writing, consents to their destruction
within that period, or by order requires that they be kept longer. The Tax
Administrator of a municipal corporation may require any person, by notice
served on that person, to keep such records as the Tax Administrator determines
necessary to show whether or not that person is liable, and the extent of such
liability, for the income tax levied by the municipality or for the withholding
of such tax.
      (3)   The Tax Administrator may examine under oath any person that the
Tax Administrator reasonably believes has knowledge concerning any income that
was or would have been returned for taxation or any transaction tending to
affect such income. The Tax Administrator may, for this purpose, compel any
such person to attend a hearing or examination and to produce any books,
papers, records, and federal and state income tax returns in such person’s
possession or control. The person may be assisted or represented by an
attorney, accountant, bookkeeper or other tax practitioner at any such hearing
or examination. This division does not authorize the practice of law by a
person who is not an attorney.
      (4)   No person issued written notice by the Tax Administrator compelling
attendance at a hearing or examination or the production of books, papers,
records or federal and state income tax returns under this section shall fail
to comply.
   (D)   Authority of Tax Administrator; requiring identifying information.
      (1)   The Tax Administrator may require any person filing a tax document
with the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information, which may
include the person’s Social Security number, federal employer identification
number or other identification number requested by the Tax Administrator. A
person required by the Tax Administrator to provide identifying information
that has experienced any change with respect to that information shall notify
the Tax Administrator of the change before, or upon, filing the next tax
document requiring the identifying information.
      (2)   (a)   If the Tax Administrator makes a request for identifying
information and the Tax Administrator does not receive valid identifying
information within 30 days of making the request, nothing in this chapter
prohibits the Tax Administrator from imposing a penalty upon the person to whom
the request was directed pursuant to §
34.10 of this chapter, in addition to any applicable penalty described in §
34.99 of this chapter.
         (b)   If a person required by the Tax Administrator to provide
identifying information does not notify the Tax Administrator of a change with
respect to that information as required under division (D)(1) of this section
within 30 days after filing the next tax document requiring such identifying
information, nothing in this chapter prohibits the Tax Administrator from
imposing a penalty pursuant to §
34.10 of this chapter.
         (c)   The penalties provided for under divisions (D)(2)(a) and (D)(2)
(b) of this section may be billed and imposed in the same manner as the tax or
fee with respect to which the identifying information is sought and are in
addition to any applicable criminal penalties described in §
34.99 of this chapter for a violation of §
34.15 of this chapter; and any other penalties that may be imposed by the Tax
Administrator by law.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Accuracy of returns; verification, see R.C. § 718.23
   Administration of claims, see R.C. § 718.28
   Authority of Tax Administrator, see R.C. § 718.24
   Identification information, see R.C. § 718.26
§ 34.14 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   Any information gained as a result of returns, investigations,
hearings or verifications required or authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or by the
charter or ordinance of the municipality is confidential, and no person shall
access or disclose such information except in accordance with a proper judicial
order or in connection with the performance of that person’s official duties or
the official business of the municipality as authorized by R.C. Chapter 718 or
the charter or ordinance authorizing the levy. The Tax Administrator of the
municipality or a designee thereof may furnish copies of returns filed or
otherwise received under this chapter and other related tax information to the
Internal Revenue Service, the State Tax Commissioner and tax administrators of
other municipal corporations.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit the municipality from publishing or
disclosing statistics in a form that does not disclose information with respect
to particular taxpayers.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Tax information confidential, see R.C. § 718.13
§ 34.15 FRAUD.
   No person shall knowingly make, present, aid or assist in the preparation or
presentation of a false or fraudulent report, return, schedule, statement,
claim or document authorized or required by municipal corporation ordinance or
state law to be filed with the Tax Administrator, or knowingly procure, counsel
or advise the preparation or presentation of such report, return, schedule,
statement, claim or document, or knowingly change, alter or amend, or knowingly
procure, counsel or advise such change, alteration or amendment of the records
upon which such report, return, schedule, statement, claim or document is based
with intent to defraud the municipality or the Tax Administrator.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Fraud, see R.C. § 718.35
§ 34.16 OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   An OPINION OF THE TAX ADMINISTRATOR means an opinion issued under this
section with respect to prospective municipal income tax liability. It does not
include ordinary correspondence of the Tax Administrator.
   (B)   A taxpayer may submit a written request for an opinion of the Tax
Administrator as to whether or how certain income, source of income or a
certain activity or transaction will be taxed. The written response of the Tax
Administrator shall be an opinion of the Tax Administrator and shall bind the
Tax Administrator, in accordance with divisions (C), (G) and (H) of this
section; provided all of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   The taxpayer’s request fully and accurately describes the specific
facts or circumstances relevant to a determination of the taxability of the
income, source of income, activity or transaction, and, if an activity or
transaction, all parties involved in the activity or transaction are clearly
identified by name, location or other pertinent facts;
      (2)   The request relates to a tax imposed by the municipality in
accordance with this chapter; and
      (3)   The Tax Administrator’s response is signed by the Tax Administrator
and designated as an opinion of the Tax Administrator.
   (C)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator shall remain in effect and shall
protect the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and who reasonably
relies on it from liability for any taxes, penalty or interest otherwise
chargeable on the activity or transaction specifically held by the Tax
Administrator’s opinion to be taxable in a particular manner or not to be
subject to taxation for any taxable years that may be specified in the opinion,
or until the earliest of the following dates:
      (1)   The effective date of a written revocation by the Tax Administrator
sent to the taxpayer by certified mail, return receipt requested. The effective
date of the revocation shall be the taxpayer’s date of receipt or one year
after the issuance of the opinion, whichever is later;
      (2)   The effective date of any amendment or enactment of a relevant
section of the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified state law or the municipality’s
income tax ordinance that would substantially change the analysis and
conclusion of the opinion of the Tax Administrator;
      (3)   The date on which a court issues an opinion establishing or
changing relevant case law with respect to the Ohio Revised Code, uncodified
state law or the municipality’s income tax ordinance;
      (4)   If the opinion of the Tax Administrator was based on the
interpretation of federal law, the effective date of any change in the relevant
federal statutes or regulations, or the date on which a court issues an opinion
establishing or changing relevant case law with respect to federal statutes or
regulations;
      (5)   The effective date of any change in the taxpayer’s material facts
or circumstances; and
      (6)   The effective date of the expiration of the opinion, if specified
in the opinion.
   (D)   (1)   A taxpayer is not relieved of tax liability for any activity or
transaction related to a request for an opinion that contained any
misrepresentation or omission of one or more material facts.
      (2)   If the taxpayer knowingly has misrepresented the pertinent facts or
omitted material facts with intent to defraud the municipality in order to
obtain a more favorable opinion, the taxpayer may be in violation of §
34.15 of this chapter.
   (E)   If a Tax Administrator provides written advice under this section, the
opinion shall include a statement that:
      (1)   The tax consequences stated in the opinion may be subject to change
for any of the reasons stated in division (C) of this section; and
      (2)   It is the duty of the taxpayer to be aware of such changes.
   (F)   A Tax Administrator may refuse to offer an opinion on any request
received under this section.
   (G)   This section binds a Tax Administrator only with respect to opinions
of the Tax Administrator issued on or after January 1, 2016.
   (H)   An opinion of a Tax Administrator binds that Tax Administrator only
with respect to the taxpayer for whom the opinion was prepared and does not
bind the Tax Administrator of any other municipal corporation.
   (I)   A Tax Administrator shall make available the text of all opinions
issued under this section, except those opinions prepared for a taxpayer who
has requested that the text of the opinion remain confidential. In no event
shall the text of an opinion be made available until the Tax Administrator has
removed all information that identifies the taxpayer and any other parties
involved in the activity or transaction.
   (J)   An opinion of the Tax Administrator issued under this section or a
refusal to offer an opinion under division (F) of this section may not be
appealed.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Opinion of Tax Administrator; request, see R.C. § 718.38
§ 34.17 ASSESSMENT; APPEAL BASED ON PRESUMPTION OF DELIVERY.
   (A)   (1)   The Tax Administrator shall serve an assessment either by
personal service, by certified mail or by a delivery service authorized under
R.C. § 5703.056.
      (2)   The Tax Administrator may deliver the assessment through
alternative means as provided in this section, including, but not limited to,
delivery by secure electronic mail. Such alternative delivery method must be
authorized by the person subject to the assessment.
      (3)   Once service of the assessment has been made by the Tax
Administrator or other municipal official, or the designee of either, the
person to whom the assessment is directed may protest the ruling of that
assessment by filing an appeal with the Local Board of Tax Review within 60
days after the receipt of service. The delivery of an assessment of the Tax
Administrator as prescribed in R.C. § 718.18 is prima facie evidence that
delivery is complete and that the assessment is served.
   (B)   (1)   A person may challenge the presumption of delivery and service
as set forth in this division (B). A person disputing the presumption of
delivery and service under this section bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence that the address to which the assessment was sent
was not an address with which the person was associated at the time the Tax
Administrator originally mailed the assessment by certified mail. For the
purposes of this section, a person is associated with an address at the time
the Tax Administrator originally mailed the assessment if, at that time, the
person whs residing, receiving legal documents or conducting business at the
address; or if, before that time, the person had conducted business at the
address and, when the assessment was mailed, the person’s agent or the person’s
affiliate was conducting business at the address. For the purposes of this
section, a person’s affiliate is any other person that, at the time the
assessment was mailed, owned or controlled at least 20%, as determined by
voting rights, of the addressee’s business.
      (2)   If a person elects to appeal an assessment on the basis described
in division (B)(1) of this section, and if that assessment is subject to
collection and is not otherwise appealable, the person must do so within 60
days after the initial contact by the Tax Administrator or other municipal
official, or the designee of either, with the person. Nothing in this division
(B)(2) prevents the Tax Administrator or other official from entering into a
compromise with the person if the person does not actually file such an appeal
with the Local Board of Tax Review.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Service of assessment; presumption, see R.C. § 718.18
§ 34.18 LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW; APPEAL TO LOCAL BOARD OF TAX REVIEW.
   (A)   (1) The legislative authority of the municipality shall maintain a
Local Board of Tax Review to hear appeals as provided in R.C. Ch. 718.
      (2)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall consist of the Village Fiscal
Officer, Mayor and legal counsel for the village. A majority of the members of
the Board shall constitute a quorum. The Board shall adopt its own procedural
rules and shall keep a record of its transactions. Any hearing by the Board may
be conducted privately and any provisions in this chapter with reference to the
confidential character of information required to be disclosed by the ordinance
shall apply to such matters as may be heard before the Board on appeal.
   (B)   Whenever a Tax Administrator issues an assessment, the Tax
Administrator shall notify the taxpayer in writing at the same time of the
taxpayer’s right to appeal the assessment, the manner in which the taxpayer may
appeal the assessment, and the address to which the appeal should be directed
and to whom the appeal should be directed.
   (C)   Any person who has been issued an assessment may appeal the assessment
to the Board by filing a request with the Board. The request shall be in
writing, shall specify the reason or reasons why the assessment should be
deemed incorrect or unlawful and shall be filed within 60 days after the
taxpayer receives the assessment.
   (D)   The Local Board of Tax Review shall schedule a hearing to be held
within 60 days after receiving an appeal of an assessment under division (C) of
this section, unless the taxpayer requests additional time to prepare or waives
a hearing. If the taxpayer does not waive the hearing, the taxpayer may appear
before the Board and/or may be represented by an attorney at law, certified
public accountant or other representative. The Board may allow a hearing to be
continued as jointly agreed to by the parties. In such a case, the hearing must
be completed within 120 days after the first day of the hearing unless the
parties agree otherwise.
   (E)   The Board may affirm, reverse or modify the Tax Administrator’s
assessment or any part of that assessment. The Board shall issue a final
determination on the appeal within 90 days after the Board’s final hearing on
the appeal, and send a copy of its final determination by ordinary mail to all
of the parties to the appeal within 15 days after issuing the final
determination. The taxpayer or the Tax Administrator may appeal the Board’s
final determination as provided in R.C. § 5717.011.
   (F)   The Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section shall
adopt rules governing its procedures, including a schedule of related costs,
and shall keep a record of its transactions. The rules governing the Local
Board of Tax Review procedures shall be in writing, and may be amended as
needed by the Local Board of Tax Review. Such records are not public records
available for inspection under R.C. § 149.43. For this reason, any
documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or working
papers for each case must be maintained in a secure location under the control
of the Tax Administrator. No member of the Local Board of Tax Review may remove
such documentation, copies of returns or reports, final determinations or
working papers from the hearing. Hearings requested by a taxpayer before a
Local Board of Tax Review created pursuant to this section are not meetings of
a public body subject to R.C. § 121.22. For this reason, such hearings shall
not be open to the public and only those parties to the case may be present
during the hearing.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Local Board of Tax Review, see R.C. § 718.11
§ 34.19 ACTIONS TO RECOVER; STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Civil actions to recover municipal income taxes and
penalties and interest on municipal income taxes shall be brought within the
latter of:
            1.   Three years after the tax was due or the return was filed,
whichever is later; or
            2.   One year after the conclusion of the qualifying deferral
period, if any.
         (b) The time limit described in division (A)(1)(a) of this section may
be extended at any time if both the Tax Administrator and the employer, agent
of the employer, other payer or taxpayer consent in writing to the extension.
Any extension shall also extend for the same period of time the time limit
described in division (C) of this section.
      (2) As used in this section, QUALIFYING DEFERRAL PERIOD means a period of
time beginning and ending as follows.
         (a)   Beginning on the date a person who is aggrieved by an assessment
files with a Local Board of Tax Review the request described in §
34.18 of this chapter. That date shall not be affected by any subsequent
decision, finding or holding by any administrative body or court that the Local
Board of Tax Review with which the aggrieved person filed the request did not
have jurisdiction to affirm, reverse, or modify the assessment or any part of
that assessment.
         (b)   Ending the later of the 60th day after the date on which the
final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review becomes final or, if any
party appeals from the determination of the Local Board of Tax Review, the 60th
day after the date on which the final determination of the Local Board of Tax
Review is either ultimately affirmed in whole or in part or ultimately reversed
and no further appeal of either that affirmation, in whole or in part, or that
reversal is available or taken.
   (B)   Prosecutions for an offense made punishable under a resolution or
ordinance imposing an income tax shall be commenced within three years after
the commission of the offense; provided that in the case of fraud, failure to
file a return or the omission of 25% or more of income required to be reported,
prosecutions may be commenced within six years after the commission of the
offense.
   (C)   A claim for a refund of municipal income taxes shall be brought within
the time limitation provided in §
34.09(F) of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Notwithstanding the fact that an appeal is pending, the
petitioner may pay all or a portion of the assessment that is the subject of
the appeal. The acceptance of a payment by the municipality does not prejudice
any claim for refund upon final determination of the appeal.
      (2)   If upon final determination of the appeal an error in the
assessment is corrected by the Tax Administrator, upon an appeal so filed or
pursuant to a final determination of the Local Board of Tax Review created
under §
34.18 of this chapter, of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals, or any court to which
the decision of the Ohio Board of Tax Appeals has been appealed, so that the
amount due from the party assessed under the corrected assessment is less than
the amount paid, there shall be issued to the appellant or to the appellant’s
assigns or legal representative a refund in the amount of the overpayment as
provided by §
34.09(F) of this chapter, with interest on that amount as provided by division
(D) of this section.
   (E)   No civil action to recover municipal income tax or related penalties
or interest shall be brought during either of the following time periods:
      (1)   The period during which a taxpayer has a right to appeal the
imposition of that tax or interest or those penalties; or
      (2)   The period during which an appeal related to the imposition of that
tax or interest or those penalties is pending.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Statute of limitations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 34.20 ADOPTION OF RULES.
   (A)   Pursuant to R.C. § 718.30, the legislative authority of the
municipality has the authority, by ordinance or resolution, to adopt rules to
administer the income tax imposed by the municipality.
   (B)   All rules adopted under this section shall be published and posted on
the internet.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of rules, see R.C. § 718.30
§ 34.21COLLECTION AFTER TERMINATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall continue in full force and effect insofar as the
levy of taxes is concerned until repealed, and insofar as the collection of
taxes levied hereunder and actions and proceedings for collecting any tax so
levied or enforcing any provisions of this chapter are concerned, it shall
continue in full force and effect until all of the taxes levied in the
aforesaid period are fully paid and any and all suits and prosecutions for the
collection of taxes or for the punishment of violations of this chapter have
been fully terminated, subject to the limitations contained in §
34.19.
   (B)   Annual returns due for all or any part of the last effective year of
this chapter shall be due on the date provided in §
34.09(A) as though the same were continuing.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
§ 34.22 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If any sentence, clause, section or part of this chapter, or any tax imposed
against, or exemption from tax granted to, any taxpayer or forms of income
specified herein is found to be unconstitutional, illegal or invalid, such
unconstitutionality, illegality or invalidity shall affect only such clause,
sentence, section or part of this chapter so found and shall not affect or
impair any of the remaining provisions, sentences, clauses, sections or other
parts of this chapter. It is hereby declared to be the intention of the
legislative authority of the municipality that this chapter would have been
adopted had such unconstitutional, illegal or invalid sentence, clause, section
or part thereof not been included in this chapter.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, whoever violates
§§
34.05(A),
34.14(A) or
34.15 of this chapter, by failing to remit municipal income taxes deducted and
withheld from an employee, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree
and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a
term of up to six months, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by
dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (B)   Any person who discloses information received from the Internal
Revenue Service in violation of I.R.C. §§ 7213(a), 7213A or 7431 shall be
guilty of a felony of the fifth degree and shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $5,000 plus the costs of prosecution, or imprisonment for a term not
exceeding five years, or both. In addition, the violation is punishable by
dismissal from office or discharge from employment, or both.
   (C)   Each instance of access or disclosure in violation of §
34.14(A) constitutes a separate offense.
   (D)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which violation no
penalty is otherwise provided, is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree
on a first offense; on a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree; on each
subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree. By way of an illustrative
enumeration, violations of this chapter shall include but not be limited to the
following acts, conduct and/or omissions:
      (1)   Fail, neglect or refuse to make any return or declaration required
by this chapter;
      (2)   Knowingly make any incomplete return;
      (3)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to pay the tax, penalties and
interest, or any combination thereof, imposed by this chapter;
      (4)   Cause to not be remitted the village income tax withheld from
qualifying wages of employees to the municipality municipal corporation as
required by §
34.05(A);
      (5)   Neglect or refuse to withhold or remit municipal income tax from
employees;
      (6)   Refuse to permit the Tax Administrator or any duly authorized agent
or employee to examine his or her books, records, papers, federal and state
income tax returns, or any documentation relating to the income or net profits
of a taxpayer;
      (7)   Fail to appear before the Tax Administrator and to produce his or
her books, records, papers, federal and state income tax returns, or any
documentation relating to the income or net profits of a taxpayer upon order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (8)   Refuse to disclose to the Tax Administrator any information with
respect to such person’s income or net profits, or in the case of a person
responsible for maintaining information relating to his or her employers’
income or net profits, such person’s employer’s income or net profits;
      (9)   Fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter or any order or
subpoena of the Tax Administrator;
      (10)   To avoid imposition or collection of municipal income tax,
willfully give to an employer or prospective employer false information as to
his or her true name, correct Social Security number and residence address, or
willfully fail to promptly notify an employer or a prospective employer of any
change in residence address and date thereof;
      (11)   Fail, as an employer, agent of an employer or other payer, to
maintain proper records of employees residence addresses, total qualifying
wages paid and municipal tax withheld, or to knowingly give the Tax
Administrator false information;
      (12)   Willfully fail, neglect or refuse to make any payment of estimated
municipal income tax for any taxable year or any part of any taxable year in
accordance with this chapter;
      (13)   Attempt to do anything whatsoever to avoid the payment of the
whole or any part of the tax, penalties or interest imposed by this chapter;
      (14)   For purposes of this section, any violation that does not specify
a culpable mental state or intent, shall be one of strict liability and no
culpable mental state or intent shall be required for a person to be guilty of
that violation; or
      (15)   For purposes of this section, the term PERSON shall, in addition
to the meaning prescribed in §
34.03, include in the case of a corporation, association, pass-through entity
or unincorporated business entity not having any resident owner or officer
within the village, any employee or agent of such corporation, association,
pass-through entity or unincorporated business entity who has control or
supervision over or is charged with the responsibility of filing the municipal
income tax returns and making the payments of the municipal income tax as
required by this chapter.
(Ord. O-35-2015, passed 12-16-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Violations; penalties, see R.C. § 718.99
CHAPTER 35: PERSONNEL REGULATIONS
Section
   
35.01   Overtime compensation
   
35.02   Ohio Public Employees Deferred Compensation Program
   
35.03   Discrimination and sexual harassment policy
   
35.04   Policies and procedures
   
35.05   Workday hours
   
35.06   Temporary premium pay for certain employees covering for supervisory
employees
§ 35.01 OVERTIME COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   Overtime compensation of one and one-half times their regular
rate of pay shall be paid to all non-exempt employees who work in excess of
eight hours in one day during their normal work day; provided the same has been
approved and noted on their time sheets in advance by their supervisor, and
further providing that there shall be no pyramiding of overtime pay, it being
specifically intended that employees shall not be paid additional overtime for
hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week if they have already been paid
overtime on a daily basis as set forth above.
      (2)   Working overtime is generally discouraged and usually will be
performed only when the employer determines it is necessary. All overtime must
be approved in advance by the employee’s supervisor, except in unusual or
emergency situations. The employer will examine closely any overtime requests
not approved in advance. Scheduled overtime which is subsequently cancelled for
any reason shall not entitle the employee to overtime compensation.
   (B)   Non-exempt employees may elect to take compensatory time off in lieu
of receiving cash payment for overtime work, said compensatory time off to be
at the rate of one and one-half hours off for each hour of overtime worked,
under the following conditions:
      (1)   Compensatory time shall be limited to a maximum accrual per
calendar year of 40 hours;
      (2)   At no time shall an employee be allowed to accumulate more than 40
hours of compensatory time; and
      (3)   Request for using compensatory time must be made to a supervisor
who may allow or not allow the use of compensatory time in the supervisor’s
sole discretion.
(Ord. O-36-2018, passed 3- -2019)
§ 35.02 OHIO PUBLIC EMPLOYEES DEFERRED COMPENSATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The village hereby adopts Ohio Public Employees Deferred Compensation
Program Plan and shall properly contract with any eligible employee who desires
to participate in the Plan. The Plan shall be the uniform plan as promulgated
by and as amended from time to time by the Ohio Public Employees Deferred
Compensation Board.
   (B)   The Board is hereby authorized to administer the Plan under the
program, and to do all things necessary or proper for the administration of the
Plan, consistent with the enabling statutes and all the rules and regulations
promulgated by the Board, whether by the Ohio Administrative Code or otherwise,
and consistent with the program adoption agreement executed by the village.
   (C)   The Village Clerk-Treasurer is hereby appointed the responsible
official and is authorized and directed by the governing body to execute the
program adoption agreement.
   (D)   Consistent with the program adoption agreement and the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Board, the proper officials, officers, employees
and agents of the village are authorized to provide the Board with any
information they may properly require for the administration of the Plan under
the program.
(Ord. R-5-2004, passed - -2004)
§ 35.03 DISCRIMINATION AND SEXUAL HARASSMENT POLICY.
   The policy regarding discrimination and sexual harassment is hereby is
adopted as the official policy of the village, regarding and opposing any form
of discrimination and/or sexual harassment. A full copy of the policy can be
found in the village office.
(Ord. O-17-2010, passed 1-5-2011)
§ 35.04 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The policies and procedures regarding discrimination, termination and
disability matters are hereby adopted by the Village Council, specifically
reserving all rights authorized to the Village Council, for personnel
administration are hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of the policies and
procedures can be found in the village office. These policies are not to be
considered an employment contract with any employee of the village.
   (B)   All elected officials shall endeavor to act in accordance with the
principals established in the policies and procedures adopted by the Village
Council.
(Ord. O-15-2009, passed - -2009; Ord. O-35-2018, passed - -2018)
§ 35.05 WORKDAY HOURS.
   (A)   The normal workday for all hourly employees of the village, not
exempted hereinafter, be and hereby is established to begin at 6:00 a.m. and
end at 2:30 p.m. with a 30-minute lunch (normally taken from 11:30 a.m. until
12:00 p.m.).
   (B)   The above hours of employment for hourly employees of the village
shall not apply to members of the Police Department, elected officials and
salaried employees of the village.
(Ord. O-06-2010, passed 8-3-2010)
§ 35.06 TEMPORARY PREMIUM PAY FOR CERTAIN EMPLOYEES COVERING FOR SUPERVISORY
EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   When, due to an extended leave of absence for a supervisory employee
in any of the Water, Sewer, or Street Departments, another employee is
designated by the Mayor or by the Village Administrator to perform the duties
of the supervisory employee, that employee shall receive the same hourly pay as
the supervisory employee whose duties the employee is performing.
   (B)   The additional hourly pay as set forth in division (A) above shall
begin during the third week or eleventh work-day of the supervisory employee's
leave of absence.
   (C)   When the supervisory employee returns to a regular work schedule for
the village, the additional hourly pay as set forth in division (A) above shall
terminate, and the affected employee will return to that employee's regular
compensation level.
(Ord. O-4-2024, passed 2-20-2024)
CHAPTER 36: PLANS AND POLICIES
Section
   
36.01   Stark-Tuscarawas-Wayne Joint Solid Waste Management District Waste
Management Plan
   
36.02   Land reutilization program
   
36.03   Source water protection plan
   
36.04   Tuscarawas 2017 Hazard Mitigation Plan
   
36.05   Municipal records manual
   
36.06   Filling swimming pool policy
   
36.07   Competitive bid contracts policy
§ 36.01 STARK-TUSCARAWAS-WAYNE JOINT SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT WASTE
MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The Stark-Tuscarawas-Wayne Joint Solid Waste Management District Waste
Management Plan is hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of this plan can be
found in the village office.
(Res. R-07-2018, passed 9- -2018)
§ 36.02 LAND REUTILIZATION PROGRAM.
   (A)   The existence of such tax delinquent properties scheduled for tax lien
certificate sale and/or tax sale has necessitated the village’s implementation
of a land reutilization program.
   (B)   The village hereby adopts the Land Reutilization Program as set forth
in R.C. Chapter 5722.
   (C)   The village is hereby authorized and directed to utilize the
provisions of R.C. Chapter 5722 to obtain land through a sale, pursuant to a
foreclosure proceeding initiated by the County Treasurer (R.C. § 5722.03 and/or
through sale of forfeited lands by the County Auditor in accordance with R.C. §
5722.04) and/or conveyance in lieu of foreclosures in accordance with R.C. §
5722.10.
   (D)   The village is hereby directed to facilitate the effective
reutilization of non-productive land situated within the boundaries of the
village and to foster the return of non-productive, tax delinquent land to tax
revenue generating status and/or devotion to public use.
(Ord. O-24-2019, passed - -2019)
§ 36.03 SOURCE WATER PROTECTION PLAN.
   The Source Water Protection Plan is hereby adopted by reference. A full copy
of the plan can be found in the village office.
(Res. R-01-2014, passed 1-8-2014)
§ 36.04 TUSCARAWAS 2017 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Tuscarawas 2017 Hazard Mitigation Plan is hereby adopted as the official
hazard mitigation plan of the village. A full copy of the plan can be found in
the village office.
(Res. R-02-2017, passed - -2017)
§ 36.05 MUNICIPAL RECORDS MANUAL.
   The Municipal Records Manual is hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of
the manual can be found in the village office.
(Ord. O-26-2021, passed - -2021)
§ 36.06 FILLING SWIMMING POOL POLICY.
   The policy for filling swimming pools with water from the village water
system is hereby adopted by reference. A full copy of the policy can be found
in the village office.
(Ord. O-22-2015, passed 5-19-2015)
§ 36.07 COMPETITIVE BID CONTRACTS POLICY.
   The village adopts a policy to require any competitive bid contract awarded
by the village to be awarded to the lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
(Ord. O-05-2005, passed 3-1-2005)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   WASTEWATER REGULATIONS
      
53.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Temporary relief of utilities for active members of the United States
Armed Forces
   
50.02   Water and sewer services to residents outside of the village
§ 50.01 TEMPORARY RELIEF OF UTILITIES FOR ACTIVE MEMBERS OF THE UNITED STATES
ARMED FORCES.
   Relief shall be provided to active members of the United States Armed Forces
from water, sewer and trash charges for properties owned and occupied by said
active members of the United States Armed Forces in the village.
   (A)   The active members of the United States Armed Forces must own or
occupy property located within the village and serviced by water, sewer and
trash services provided by the village.
   (B)   The active members of the United States Armed Forces must have
received notification of a deployment which will require them to be absent from
their property for at least six months, and that their absence will cause their
property to be completely vacant.
   (C)   Under these circumstances, the active service person shall receive a
100% forgiveness of any water, sewer and trash charges incurred during their
deployment and absence from their residence; provided they make written
application and agree to have the water turned off at the curb connection upon
approval of the application.
   (D)   The application shall be submitted to the Mayor for approval.
   (E)   Upon the return from deployment of the active member of the United
States Armed Forces, they shall make application for the water, sewer and trash
service to be restored, and upon approval, any turn-on fee otherwise required
shall be waived.
(Ord. O-20-2008, passed 12-16-2008)
§ 50.02 WATER AND SEWER SERVICES TO RESIDENTS OUTSIDE OF THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   The Water and Sewer Department shall provide water and sewer services
to out-of-town residents on a case by cases basis, by determination of whether
or not said services shall be offered to be in the sole and absolute discretion
of the Village Council.
   (B)   In the event that water and/or sewer services are continued to be
provided to out-of-town residents, said residents receiving out-of-town water
and sewer services shall pay rates that are 25% higher than the rates for which
residents of the village are charged for the same services.
   (C)   There are out-of-town residents who are currently provided either
water and/or sewer services and should remain grandfathered and only pay water
and/or sewer charges for services provided to them as are currently being
charged to the residents of the village. Those residences and services are
located at: 224 North Bodmer Avenue, Strasburg, Ohio 44680.
   (D)   In the event that the ownership of the property set forth in division
(C) of this section is transferred on record anytime after this section, then
the provisions of this section for charging a 25% premium for water and/or
sewer services provided to those non-residents shall apply and the higher fees
for water and/or sewer services shall be charged to the owners or residents of
the above properties. Effective January 1, 2007, trailers located on property
owned by Michael L. Wardell, and being known as 811 Wardell Drive and 813
Wardell Drive shall pay the 25% surcharge for water and/or sewer services
provided to those properties.
(Ord. O-21-2006, passed 1-17-2007)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
Introduction
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Record retentions
   
51.003   Ordinance modification
   
51.004   Recovery of costs
General Provisions
   
51.015   Definitions
   
51.016   Interpretation of references
   
51.017   Rules and regulations   
   
51.018   Application for service
   
51.019   Charges for service to begin immediately
   
51.020   Right of entry; fee
   
51.021   Responsibility for charges
   
51.022   Liens established on property
   
51.023   Bills to be mailed; payment
   
51.024   Meter reading; estimates
   
51.025   Rebates and adjustments
   
51.026   Limitation on water use or sewer system discharge
   
51.027   Connection permits; renewal fees
   
51.028   Notification of transfer requirements
   
51.029   Fire hydrants
   
51.030   Rate charge relief
   
51.031   Water tap fees; sewer tap fees; reduced permit fees for certain water
and sewer connections
   
51.032   Well water disposal to wastewater treatment system
   
51.033   Regulating the use of water and sanitary systems
Water Connections, Usage and Charges
   
51.045   Revenue and expenses
   
51.046   No guarantee of supply
   
51.047   Prohibited uses; inadequate supply
   
51.048   Shut-off for maintenance or repair
   
51.049   Damage or obstruction; cross-connections; unauthorized connection taps
   
51.050   Unauthorized sale of water
   
51.051   Fire hydrants
   
51.052   Opening cocks or stops
   
51.053   Water meters
   
51.054   Charges for water supplied within village
   
51.055   Charges for water supplied outside village
   
51.056   Regulations for water supplied to containers
   
51.057   Statements; penalties; discontinuance of service
   
51.058   No rebate for leaks
   
51.059   Connection permit required
   
51.060   Permit application information
   
51.061   Service and privileges authorized by connection permit
   
51.062   Responsibilities of property owner or consumer
   
51.063   Meter location, boxes; service lines
   
51.064   Type of meter required
   
51.065   Unauthorized taps
   
51.066   Lot and utility strip locations restricted
   
51.067   Peak demand flow
   
51.068   Separate connections required
   
51.069   Inspection before approval
   
51.070   Extension generally
   
51.071   Installation charges generally
   
51.072   Standards for construction
   
51.073   Sprinkler system charges
Pretreatment
   
51.085   General provisions
   
51.086   Discharges prohibited
   
51.087   Pretreatment required
   
51.088   High strength surcharges
   
51.089   Unit cost recovery
   
51.090   Slug discharge fee
   
51.091   Metering and monitoring fees
   
51.092   Pretreatment; monitoring facilities
   
51.093   Pretreatment; inspections and sampling
   
51.094   Enforcement; emergency suspension of service
   
51.095   Revocation of treatment service
Sewer Connections, Usage and Charges
   
51.105   Revenue and expenses
   
51.106   No guarantee of service
   
51.107   Damage or obstruction; unauthorized connections
   
51.108   Unauthorized service
   
51.109   Shutoff for maintenance or repair
   
51.110   Lines under construction to be sealed
   
51.111   Unpolluted water prohibited
   
51.112   Process or cooling water to storm drain
   
51.113   Calculation of charge
   
51.114   Charges for sewer service
   
51.115   Statements; penalties; discontinuance of service
   
51.116   Connection permit required
   
51.117   Permit application information
   
51.118   Inspection before approval
   
51.119   Extensions under pavement
   
51.120   Service and privileges authorized by connection permit
   
51.121   Responsibilities of property owner or consumer
   
51.122   Unauthorized taps
   
51.123   Peak demand flow
   
51.124   Separate connection required
   
51.125   Privies, cesspools and private sewers prohibited if public sewer
available
   
51.126   Responsibility for charges
   
51.127   Use of public sewers required
   
51.128   Building sewers and connection
   
51.129   Use of public sewers
   
51.130   Protection from damage
   
51.131   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.132   Non-acceptable waste
   
51.133   Control of non-acceptable wastes
   
51.134   Tests, measurements and analysis
   
51.135   Violations; notice
 
   
51.999   Penalty
INTRODUCTION
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   This chapter sets forth comprehensive rules and regulations for the use,
connections and services of the municipal water and sanitary sewer systems of
the village, together with uniform requirements for dischargers into the
village wastewater collections and treatment system, and enables the village to
protect the public health in conformity with all applicable local, state and
federal laws relating thereto.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.002 RECORD RETENTIONS.
   All industrial and commercial dischargers subject to this chapter shall
retain and preserve, for not less than three years, any and all records, books,
documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence, plus any and all summaries
thereof, relating to monitoring, sampling and chemical analysis made by or on
behalf of a discharger in connection with its discharges. All records which
pertain to matters which are the subject of administrative adjustment or any
other enforcement or litigation activities brought by the village pursuant
hereto shall be retained and preserved by the discharger until all enforcement
activities have concluded and all periods of limitation with respect to any and
all appeals have expired.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.003 ORDINANCE MODIFICATION.
   The village reserves the right to amend this chapter and the terms and
conditions hereof, in order to assure compliance by the village with all
applicable laws and regulations, present or future.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.004 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
discharges or causes a discharge producing a deposit or obstruction, or who
causes damage to or impairs the village wastewater disposal shall be liable to
the village for any and all expenses, loss or damage caused by such violations
or discharge. The village shall bill the discharger for the cost incurred by
the village for any cleaning, repair or replacement work caused by the
violation or discharge.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Accepted or acceptable for the proposed used by the appropriate
administrative official.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a discharge
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
   CONNECTION and CONNECTION TAP. The union and the right to such union of the
water or sewer system and an owner’s or consumer’s property.
   CONSUMER or USER. Any person to whom water from the water system is
delivered or who discharges sewage into the sewer system.
   CORPORATION STOP. A cock or valve on a village-owned or operated main water
line to which a line serving an individual user or property may be connected;
no part of a line connecting an individual user or property to a village-owned
and operated main water line shall be considered part of a corporation stop.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any liquid, gaseous or solid waste resulting from any
process, industry, trade or business, or from the development, processing or
recovery of any natural resource, together with such sewage as is present.
   INSPECTOR. Any person or persons duly authorized by the village to inspect
and approve the installation of water lines and building sewers and their
connection to the public sewer and water systems.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OWNER. As applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant of the
whole or part of such building, or land, either alone or with others.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   POTW. Any publicly owned treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. Application of physical, chemical and biological processes to
reduce the amount of pollutants in or alter the nature of the pollutant
properties in a wastewater prior to discharging such wastewater into the
publicly owned wastewater treatment system.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. All applicable federal rules and regulations
implementing § 307 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972 (now the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317), as well as any non-conflicting state
or local standards. In cases of conflicting standards or regulations, the more
stringent thereof shall be applied.
   PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REAL PROPERTY. Land tenements and hereditaments and embraces all chattels
real.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not permitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water carried as wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
such ground and surface water as may be present.
   SEWAGE SYSTEM. Mains, collecting lines, pumping stations, sewage treatment
facilities and any and all other appurtenances common to such systems.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SERVICE. The collection of sewage from an owner’s or consumer’s
premises.
   SLUG LOAD. Any substance released in a discharge at a rate and/or
concentration which causes interference to a POTW.
   USER. Any person, individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation, group or political entity who discharges sewage into the sewage
system of the village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Strasburg, in Tuscarawas County, Ohio, or any
authorized representative thereof, including the Village Council, Mayor, Water
and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator or authorized deputy or agent
thereof.
   WASTEWATER. A combination of water carried as waste from residences,
buildings, business buildings, institutions and any other industrial
establishment together with such ground and surface water as may be present.
   WATER SERVICE. The delivery of water from the water system to an owner or
consumer.
   WATER SYSTEM and SEWER SYSTEM. The water and sewer systems owned and
operated by the village and all parts thereof respectively.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-26-2020, passed 8-18-2020)
§ 51.016 INTERPRETATION OF REFERENCES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provisions, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.017 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided from time to time by the village, the village may
promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary and reasonable for the
proper operation of the water and sewer systems and where such rules and
regulations are not in conflict with the Constitution and the laws of the
state, the village ordinances adopted pursuant thereto, they shall be in full
force and effect as if adopted by ordinance.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter and any rules and regulations adopted
as provided herein shall be a part of the contract with every consumer supplied
with water by the water system, and every user of the sewer system and every
such consumer or user shall be considered to have expressed his or her consent
to such rules and regulations.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.018 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Before any person shall use or draw water from the water system or discharge
any sewage into the sewer system, the owner of the property served or the
consumer shall apply to the village for water or sewer service and shall
provide the information necessary to determine the ownership, location, use or
proposed use of the property served, the amount of the water likely to be
required by the consumer and such other information, documents and assurances
required by the village to process the application.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.019 CHARGES FOR SERVICE TO BEGIN IMMEDIATELY.
   Whenever water or sewer service is begun to an owner’s or consumer’s
property, the water, sewer and other charges provided herein shall begin
immediately. Water or sewer service is presumed to have begun when an owner or
owner’s representative applies for a permit and purchases a water meter to be
installed on said property; provided, however that in the event the purchaser
is a contractor acting on behalf of an ultimate owner or consumer, then the
water and sewer charges shall not begin until occupancy of the property by the
ultimate owner or the expiration of 365 days from the date of the application
for and receipt of the water meter servicing said property as described above,
whichever occurs first. In the event existing water or sewer service is shut
off to an owner’s or consumer’s property, water usage charges, sewer usage
charges and other usage charges provided herein shall begin immediately upon a
request for the water or sewer service to be turned on and resumed to said
property. These usage charges shall be in addition to mandatory minimum charges
provided elsewhere in this chapter regulating the use of the water and sanitary
sewer systems for the village.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-02-2005, passed 2-2-2005)
§ 51.020 RIGHT OF ENTRY; FEE.
   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator may enter any
premises to which water is delivered or sewer service provided for the purpose
of reading, repairing, installing or removing or inspecting water meters,
inspecting water distribution, water and sewer service lines or for any other
purposes necessary to the proper and efficient operation of the water and sewer
systems, and if any owner or consumer shall unreasonably deny such access, the
Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator may discontinue, with the
approval of the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator, water
service to the premises to which access is refused and shall not resume service
until access is permitted without obstruction and until a fee of $25 for such
resumption of service has been paid to the village, during which time the
consumer shall continue to be responsible for minimum billing.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.021 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR CHARGES.
   (A)   The owner and property served by the water or sewer system may have a
tenant, occupant or lessee receive the statements and pay charges for water and
sewer services, but such occupant, tenant or lessee for such purpose acts as
the agent of the owner who shall not thereby be relieved from the payment of
any charges not paid by the tenant, occupant or lessee.
   (B)   The owners of real estate premises installing or maintaining water and
sewer service shall be liable for all water and sewer charges incurred for
service at said premises.
   (C)   Tenants or owners of real estate premises serviced with water and
sewer may contract with the village for such water and sewer service but such
contract shall be in no way be construed as to relieve the owner of the real
estate premises of liability for said water and sewer service charges.
   (D)   The owners of real estate premises installing or maintaining water and
sewer service shall be liable for all water and sewer service charges incurred
for service at said premises, regardless of whether the property served by the
water or sewer system is owner-occupied or occupied by a tenant, occupant or
lessee of the property owners. All property owners shall be responsible for
payment of charges for water and sewer services provided to the property, which
charges for water and sewer services shall be a lien upon the property so
served in accordance with §
51.022; provided that upon the written request of the owner of rental property,
said water and sewer bills may be mailed to the current residential occupant of
said property.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-05-2008, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 51.022 LIENS ESTABLISHED ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   Each water and sewer charge charged upon or pursuant to the ordinances
of the village is made a lien upon the connection to the water and sewer system
of the village and, if the same is not paid within 60 days after it shall
become due and payable, it may be certified to the County Auditor, at which
time the lien shall vest, and the County Auditor shall place the same in the
tax duplicate of the county with the interest and penalties allowed by law and
be collected as other taxes; provided that the owner of said property shall be
given written notice of the impending certification at least 30 days prior to
said certification. Additionally, no certification may be made under this
section unless the unpaid rent or charges have arisen pursuant to a service
contract made directly with the owner of the property served.
   (B)   After certifying to the County Auditor that the water and sewer
charges are unpaid and a lien as provided herein, the village, or its
authorized agents or employees, is authorized to shut off the water and sewer
service to those real estate premises until such unpaid water and sewer charges
have been paid.
   (C)   The owner of real estate premises, by installing or maintaining water
and sewer services from the village is deemed to assent to all rules and
regulations of the village and ordinances of the village pertaining to water
and sewer services and distribution.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-05-2008, passed 6-3-2008)
§ 51.023 BILLS TO BE MAILED; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Statements of charges for water, sewer and other services shall be
deposited postage paid by the village with the United States Postal Service for
delivery only as a matter of convenience to the owner or consumer, and failure
of the owner or consumer to receive statements does not relieve the owner or
consumer of his or her obligation to pay such statements.
   (B)   All charges for services provided by the village shall be paid to the
designated collection agency. Billings will be monthly.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.024 METER READINGS; ESTIMATES.
   (A)   Water meters will be read monthly at such times and for such areas as
the village shall from time to time determine. Owners or consumers may be
charged for water and sewer service at the minimum rates applicable at any time
that water meters are not read.
   (B)   The village shall, whenever possible, determine the amount of water
delivered to the owner or consumer by reading the water meter and prepare the
water and sewer service statements based on such readings. The village may,
however, estimate the amount of water delivered since the prior meter reading,
taking prior meter readings as a guide, if weather conditions, meter accurance
or inaccessibility of the meter or other conditions require. The village shall
determine, and their determination shall be final, the amount of water
delivered either by estimate or water meter readings or by actual meter
readings, and the owner or consumer shall pay to the village the amount charged
based on the village’s computation or estimate of water delivered.
   (C)   The village shall calculate charges for water and sewer service based
on water usage rounded off to the nearest 1,000 gallon increment.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.025 REBATES AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   No rebate, deduction or adjustment shall be made of water or sewer charges
to any owner or consumer because of leakage or alleged leakage in any water
pipe, tank or other device or because of water wasted through continuously open
faucets or when service is temporarily discontinued at the request of the
consumer or owner. The village may, when requested by the owner or consumer,
reduce the charge for sewer service by an amount equal to the charge for sewer
service for 75% of the water wasted and not discharged into the sewer system
when the village verifies that a water service or inside plumbing line, not
including fixtures or fixture parts, has broken, leaked and caused excessively
high water usage to record on the owner’s or consumer’s water meter.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.026 LIMITATION ON WATER USE OR SEWER SYSTEM DISCHARGE.
   (A)   No consumer shall draw water from the water system in amounts in
excess of what can be provided by the water system without limitation of or
restriction of other consumer’s use.
   (B)   No consumer shall discharge sewage into the sewer system in amounts in
excess of what can be drained and treated by the sewer system without
limitation of or restriction of other consumers’ discharge.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.027 CONNECTION PERMITS; RENEWAL FEES.
   (A)   A permit for connection to the water or sewer system, when issued by
the village, shall be valid for the property for which application was made;
provided, however, that such connection shall be made within six months from
the date of issuance. If such connection is not made within six months, the
property owner shall apply to the village within 30 days of the expiration of
the permit for renewal of the connection permit. Such permit renewal shall be
issued by the village; provided that the owner pays to the village a fee for
renewal of the tap fee or permit in the amount of $25 plus an amount equal to
any increase in the fees or charges required for such tap fee or permit.
   (B)   The renewal of a tap fee or permit for connection to the water or
sewer system, when issued by the village, shall be valid for the property for
which original application was made; provided, however, that the connection
permitted is made within six months of the date of issuance. However, if the
connection permitted in such renewal is not made within six months of the date
of the issuance, then the provision of this section for renewal of original tap
fee or permits shall apply.
   (C)   Unused water and sewer connections permits which are not renewed as
provided herein shall be void and the tap fee or permit fees paid to the
village shall be refunded to the applicant less an administrative charge of $25
for each expired tap fee or permit.
   (D)   No permit shall be renewed for connection to a property on which the
owner permits the continuation of any violation of village ordinances or
regulations pertaining to buildings, zonings, sewage, water or health matters.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.028 NOTIFICATION OF TRANSFER REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall transfer, or cause to be transferred, any property serviced
by water or sewer service, without first notifying the village of such transfer
in order that arrangements for a final reading and billing might be
accomplished. This provision also applies to owners or tenants of rental
property under an owner-tenant agreement as permitted in §
51.021.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.029 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The public fire hydrants are to be used exclusively for extinguishing
fires, for the necessary practice and drill of the Fire Department and for
flushing hydrants. No person or persons except the members of the Fire
Department acting under orders of the proper authorities, and the authorized
agents of the village shall be allowed to open any fire hydrant.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful except in time of fire to draw or cause the water
to be removed from any public cistern or fire plug, or turn off or on the water
in any such water pipe, or remove the cover of any fire plug, or stop gate or
in any way or manner injure the buildings, water source or other apparatus
belonging to the village; and the person so offending shall be subject to costs
of suit and amount of damages sustained in addition to any other penalty
provided by the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.030 RATE CHARGE RELIEF.
   Any consumer unit, presently or in the future, connected to the water and/or
sewer system will be subject to the rates as established. Any relief from these
charges can only be secured in the following manner:
   (A)   By the owner following change in use procedure as outlined in the
Zoning Code; or
   (B)   By the owner of property requesting, in writing, the removal of a unit
by completely shutting of and totally disconnecting the unit from the services,
with lines connected thereto to be capped, and sealed by owner, at his or her
expense, with a final inspection by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator. At the time service is restored to such a unit, a new tapping
permit would be required for each of the services at the rate if effect at the
time of reconnection.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.031 WATER TAP FEES; SEWER TAP FEES; REDUCED PERMIT FEES FOR CERTAIN WATER
AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The rate for water tap fees, which fees are referred to in §
51.059, are hereby established in the sum of $750 for a three-quarter inch
connection effective January 1, 2022, except as set forth hereinafter. The fees
for a larger connection shall consist of the sums set forth above, together
with a cost of all additional materials and labor resulting therefrom.
   (B)   Sewer tap fees, which are required by §
51.116, are hereby set in the sum of $750 per sewer tap for a four-inch tap,
except as set forth hereinafter. The tap fee for a six-inch tap shall be
$1,500, and the tap for an eight-inch tap shall be $3,000, except as set forth
hereinafter. An eight-inch tap fee shall only be allowed by the village after
an agreement is entered into between the consumer and the Village Council.
   (C)   There is hereby established a reduced water connection permit and a
reduced sewer connection permit, which reduced water and sewer connection
permits are intended to allow for all new connections to the water and sanitary
sewer systems of the village where the developer or the consumer has previously
established existing connections and taps to the water and sanitary sewer
systems of the village. In that event, then a developer or consumer shall be
eligible for a reduced water and/or sewer connection permit of $150 for each
connection to the water system and $150 for each connection to the sanitary
sewer system. The reduced water and/or sewer connection permits are only
available for applications for connections to the water and/or sanitary sewer
systems for the village where taps have previously been made and village
personnel are not required to make taps before the connection permit is given.
   (D)   Any application for a reduced water and/or sewer connection permit
shall indicate when the previous water and/or sewer tap to the village system
was made, and by whom. This information shall be provided to the Water and
Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator or his or her designee so as to
allow said Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator or his or her
designee to determine eligibility for the reduced water and/or sewer connection
permits established herein.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-40-2019, passed - -2019)
§ 51.032 WELL WATER DISPOSAL TO WASTEWATER TREATMENT SYSTEM.
   Notwithstanding any prior provisions of this chapter, industrial and
commercial heavy users of the water and sanitary sewer systems for the village,
said heavy users being defined as those industrial and/or commercial users
discharging an average of 15,000 gallons per month of metered water into the
sanitary sewer system, regardless of the source of said water, shall be
permitted to dispose of water pumped from a well on their premises into the
sanitary sewer system of the village, under the following terms and conditions.
   (A)   An annual application must be made and an annual permit must be
obtained from the Village Council, for the purpose of obtaining permission to
dump water from a well into the sanitary sewer system of the village. An annual
permit fee shall be assessed, upon approval, which fee shall consist of a flat
rate of $250 plus an additional fee calculated by taking the number of gallons
pumped into the sanitary sewer system from said user in the prior year,
regardless of source, times a cost factor of 50% of the current water rate
usage for said user within the village per 1,000 gallons so pumped.
   (B)   Permits to allow the disposal of well water into the village sanitary
sewer system shall only be permitted for industrial and commercial heavy users,
said heavy users being defined as those industrial or commercial consumers or
owners discharging an average of 15,000 gallons or more per month of metered
water into the sanitary sewer system, regardless of the source of said water.
Further, the permit will only be granted when the use of such water is for
commercial, public or industrial purposes.
   (C)   If village utilities, including water and sewer, are available to the
property, and would require no additional expense by the village for running
said utilities to the property, the user must hook onto said utilities, and if
currently hooked onto said utilities, must remain hooked onto said utilities.
In addition, the user must pay any minimum monthly usage fees for said
utilities not being used as a result of the permit being granted. In addition,
the user must comply with all other requirements of this chapter with respect
to backflow prevention devices, unlawful cross-connections and other such
related matters. Said user must also comply with all applicable water and sewer
construction standards as set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   A separate meter would be required, at the user’s expense, for reading
the well water to be discarded into the sanitary sewer system. A separate
minimum fee would be charged to the user for the sewer service, meaning that an
additional monthly usage fee would be charged to any user dumping pumped well
water into the village sanitary sewer system.
   (E)   All discarded water, whether pumped from the ground by the user or
taken from the village water system, must comply with all state, federal and
local pre-treatment requirements before being dumped into the sanitary sewer
system.
   (F)   Any and all pumped well water must also meet all applicable EPA
regulations prior to usage.
   (G)   Additional wells can be drilled on the premises if desired. However,
each well must be the subject of a separate application and permit, and each
well that will be pumping any water that will dump into the village sanitary
sewer system must be metered. No accommodations will be made to require the
village to determine how much water coming from a well is dumped into the
sanitary sewer system and how much is not so discharged. All water coming from
the well will be metered and subject to existing sanitary sewer charges.
   (H)   Any representative of the village, including all village employees,
will be permitted to perform random, unannounced inspection of any user that is
utilizing a well as set forth herein, and is having the water metered for sewer
rating purposes. It shall be unlawful for any resident to by-pass a metered
well pump for any reason.
   (I)   The well must be located on the user’s premises.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-5-95, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.033 REGULATING THE USE OF WATER AND SANITARY SYSTEMS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision within this chapter, the village shall
not be required to allow a connection to its water system by or for the benefit
of any property then being served by an existing water well, and the village
shall not be required to allow a connection to its sanitary sewer system by or
for the benefit of any property then being served by an adequate and
functioning septic or similar system for the treatment of the type of waste
treated by the village’s sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. O-26-2020, passed 8-18-2020)
WATER CONNECTIONS, USAGE AND CHARGES
§ 51.045 REVENUE AND EXPENSES.
   All revenue derived from or obtained in the course of the operation of the
water system shall be placed to the credit of the Water Fund from which the
costs and expenses of the water system shall be paid.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.046 NO GUARANTEE OF SUPPLY.
   Because variable conditions may arise in the operation and maintenance of
the water system, the supply of water to consumers is without guarantee of a
fixed quantity, quality, purity or temperature.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.047 PROHIBITED USES; INADEQUATE SUPPLY.
   (A)   When the supply of water to the water system is inadequate for any
reason to meet the demand for water, the village shall declare that the use of
water for lawn or garden, commercial laundries, swimming pools, manufacturing,
cooling, vehicle washing or other purposes not essential to the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the village, is prohibited during specified
hours, during a specified time period or until notice is given as provided
herein that such use is permitted, and notice of such prohibitions on the use
of water for the above purposes shall be given in the same manner as provided
for the posting of ordinances.
   (B)   No person shall use water from the water system for lawn or garden,
manufacturing, agriculture, cooling, vehicle washing or other purposes not
essential to the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the village
when the village has prohibited such use as provided herein.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.048 SHUT-OFF FOR MAINTENANCE OR REPAIR.
   Water supply through the village water mains may be shut off without notice
to consumers if breaks in mains, pumping equipment breakdown, reservoir
failures, construction, reconstruction, repair, replacement, cleaning,
extending or tapping of mains requires, and no claims for damages of any nature
whatsoever arising from such action will be paid.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.049 DAMAGE OR OBSTRUCTION; CROSS-CONNECTIONS; UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION
TAPS.
   The village shall hold any consumer or other person responsible for damage
to the water system. No person shall obstruct the water system, or make or use
any cross-connections between the water system and any other source of water.
No person shall make any connection tap or draw water from the water system
without first having received the permits to do so required in this chapter and
in §§
51.015 through
51.033.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.050 UNAUTHORIZED SALE OF WATER.
   No person shall sell water from the water system or another person for any
purpose, but this section shall not be construed to prohibit the payment of
water charges by one person for the benefit of another.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall operate or draw water from fire hydrants except in the
performance of his or her duties as a firefighter or as authorized by the Water
and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 OPENING COCKS OR STOPS.
   No person shall operate any corporation cock or stop except as authorized by
the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.053 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Water meters remain the property of the village at all times.
   (B)   No person shall break or tamper with the seal on any water meter
except as authorized by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator.
   (C)   Water meters damaged by misuse, accident or any other act will be
repaired or replaced by the village and the cost of such repair or replacement
shall be charged to the owner or consumer of the premises served by the damaged
meter as are water charges.
   (D)   No person shall remove any meter except as authorized by the Water and
Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator.
   (E)   Any meter may be removed or replaced by the Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator for tests, repairs or other purpose.
   (F)   Owners and consumers shall maintain the premises served to permit free
access to water meters.
   (G)   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator, as his or
her work schedule permits, will relocate any water meter to a water meter box
or will install a remote register device, at the option of the Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator, when a property owner requests such
relocation or installation and pay to the Board an amount equal to the cost of
such relocation or installation.
   (H)   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator may
disconnect the supply of water to an owner or consumer when the owner’s or
consumer’s water service line or water distribution system leaks unreasonably
and such water supply shall not be reconnected until the water service line or
water distribution system is repaired to a good condition.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.054 CHARGES FOR WATER SUPPLIED WITHIN VILLAGE.
   Each consumer or owner whose premises within the village is connected to the
water system shall pay to the village for the connection and for water service
for each dwelling, commercial, manufacturing or other unit served, a service
charge of $20 per month and $3.80 per 1,000 gallons per billing.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-20-2018, passed - -2018)
§ 51.055 CHARGES FOR WATER SUPPLIED OUTSIDE VILLAGE.
   Each consumer or owner whose premises outside the village is connected to
the water system shall pay to the village for the connection and for water
service for each dwelling, commercial, manufacturing or other unit served, a
service charge of $3 per month, and such additional charges based upon the
amount and rate of water consumed at the rate of $2.50 per each 1,000 gallons
used.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.056 REGULATIONS FOR WATER SUPPLIED TO CONTAINERS.
   Within the sound discretion of the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator, water may be delivered and sold into containers directly from
the water system of the village. The same may be delivered and sold into bulk
containers only. The cost of said water sold shall be $10 per 1,000 gallons for
all water so delivered and sold with a $25 minimum charge regardless of the
amount sold.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-11-98, passed 3-3-1998)
§ 51.057 STATEMENTS; PENALTIES; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   Statements of the charge for water service shall be rendered monthly on or
about the first day of the billing month for each consumer as determined by the
village and the amount of all such charges shall be paid to the village on or
before the twentieth day of the month in which the statements are rendered. If
the amount of the charges to a consumer is not paid on or before the twentieth
day of the month in which the statement was rendered, an additional charge of
15% of the current charges shall be added thereto and become part of such
unpaid charges and notice of such additional charges shall be given in the
manner provided for charges for water service. If the amount of the unpaid
charges and any penalty added thereon is not paid within 30 days after the due
date, the water supply to the consumer so in default of payment may be shut off
by the village. When any water supply has been shut off because of the
consumer’s failure to pay the charges provided hereto, the consumer shall pay
$35, plus all arrearages in full, as the fee for having the water supply
restored.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-06-2019, passed - -2019)
§ 51.058 NO REBATE FOR LEAKS.
   No deductions shall be made or rebate allowed to any consumer of water by or
on account of wasted water, leakage or alleged leakage in any water pipe, tank
or other apparatus or device. The amount of water registered by any meter shall
be charged and paid for in full, irrespective of whether such water, after
having been registered, was wasted, lost by leakage, accident or otherwise.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.059 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any connection is made for the use or delivery of water from the
water system to a consumer, the owner of the property to be served or the
consumer shall apply to the village for a water tap which shall be issued after
all the fees and charges required by this chapter have been paid.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.060 PERMIT APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   Applications for connection permits shall be made in a form required by the
village and shall contain such information necessary to determine the
ownership, location, use or proposed use of the property to be served, the
amount of water likely to be required by the consumer and location of the
buildings or other point of use on the property and such other information,
plans, documents and assurances required by the village to process the
application.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.061 SERVICE AND PRIVILEGES AUTHORIZED BY CONNECTION PERMIT.
   An approved connection permit authorizes a property owner or consumer to
connect to and use water from the water systems as permitted herein and as
restricted by the village from time to time and in a like manner and with the
same privileges as other consumers connected to the water system. The village
shall furnish a corporation stop and tap the water main serving the property
owner’s or consumer’s premises. The village shall furnish, own and maintain a
water meter of a size for which a permit fee has been paid and, when the water
service line and appurtenances have been installed and approved, shall maintain
a water service line and appurtenances from the water main to its connection
with the owner’s or consumer’s service line at the water meter or ground key
curb stop, but in no case will the village maintain any part of a service line
located on an owner’s or consumer’s premises.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.062 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPERTY OWNER OR CONSUMER.
   The property owner or consumer shall be responsible for all costs of
materials and work necessary to install a water service line and appurtenances
which shall begin at the corporation stop and continue to or onto the property
served or point of use, including a stop to be located on the water main side
of the water meter in an approved stop or meter box at the point of entry onto
the premises to be served, an approved meter set and an approved tapping saddle
if required.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.063 METER LOCATION, BOXES; SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Water meters, unless otherwise authorized by the village, shall be
located in meter boxes consisting of a four-inch by four-inch masonry pit
covered with an approved top, Ford Type C or equal. Meter boxes and curb stops
shall not be constructed in or under any rigid paving materials.
   (B)   All water service lines shall be not less than four feet below
finished grade at any point. When sanitary sewer ditches are used for
installation of water service lines, a distance of at least four feet above and
to either side of such sanitary sewer line shall be maintained at all point of
installation, if at all possible, or the water serviceable shall be installed
in a separate ditch or trench at a distance of not less than six feet from any
ditch or trench which has/been used for a sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Curb stops and corporation stops shall be a Mueller compression type
fitting or equal.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.064 TYPE OF METER REQUIRED.
   All water meters installed within the village shall be Rockwell remote
readers, or the equivalent thereof, and shall register in 1,000-gallon units.
Any property owner or consumer who requests an existing meter be changed to a
remote reader meter, he or she shall pay to the village, as the fee for the
installation by the village of a remote meter register and connections at a
point on the exterior of the structure, an amount equal to the cost to the
village of materials, labor and equipment required to install the register and
connection devices.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.065 UNAUTHORIZED TAPS.
   No person shall make or use any taps or connections except as authorized by
the village.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.066 LOT AND UTILITY STRIP LOCATIONS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No water connection shall be made for any lot unless there is first
set on the premises, a center hub stake with relation to the lot for which the
connection is sought.
   (B)   Every water connection shall be made from the water main at a position
opposite the center hub stake for the lot to be served, unless a tap at such
position would place the water line in violation of the provisions of §
51.065, in which case the tap may be made at such position as the village shall
direct.
   (C)   Service mains including replacements to premises shall be run at right
angles to the street and at a depth of no less than four feet below finished
grade.
   (D)   Ground key curb stop boxes shall be located at a point approximately
equal distance between the back of the curb and the edge of the sidewalk
nearest the curb.
   (E)   Taps to be made on line at one-half to two-thirds from the bottom of
the main line. No top tapping will be permitted.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.067 PEAK DEMAND FLOW.
   The water service connection and water service line to the premises to be
served shall be of sufficient size as determined by accepted engineering
practice to furnish an adequate flow of water to meet the requirements of the
consumer at peak demand and in no case less than three-quarter inch normal
diameter.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.068 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each separate single-family dwelling structure, separate commercial,
manufacturing or other structure, unless occupied by a single commercial,
manufacturing or other consumer on the same lot, parcel or tract of land, and
each lot, parcel or tract of land shall be connected to the water system
separately and water delivered shall be individually metered and water charges
individually computed.
   (B)   Each multiple-family dwelling structure, as well as each multiple
commercial, manufacturing or other structure shall have separate connections to
the village water system for each such unit contained therein, shall have
separate provisions for shut-off connections at the curb stop and shall be
separately metered. The provisions for multiple connections do not expand any
tap fee requirements contained in this chapter, and only one single tap fee for
each structure shall be required.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.069 INSPECTION BEFORE APPROVAL.
   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator shall inspect all
service connections and lines and shall not approve the delivery of water
through the service connection or line unless the service connection and line
have been installed in conformance with approved standards for materials and
workmanship.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.070 EXTENSION GENERALLY.
   Water distribution mains may be extended in the village by one of the three
following methods:
   (A)   Special assessments basis as per R.C. Chapter 727;
   (B)   Installation charge basis as set out in this subchapter; and
   (C)   Requirement for development as set out in Ordinance O-11-80, passed
June 2, 1980.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.071 INSTALLATION CHARGES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Concurrent with the payment of a connection fee to the village by any
owner or consumer who hereafter taps into the water system constructed or
hereafter constructed pursuant to this section, there shall be paid an
installation charge equal to the fair share of the cost of labor, equipment and
materials for the installation of such water line adjacent to the property of
such owner or consumer, in accordance with the provisions of this section, in
addition to the required connection fee.
   (B)   The village may, from time to time by resolution, find and declare
that the actual cost of the installation of any water line may be paid for
under the provisions of this chapter. Such resolution shall apportion the
actual cost of the installation of such water line, including labor, equipment
and materials, among the several owners or consumers who may be benefited
thereby, according to the front foot method. Such resolution shall declare that
in lieu of an assessment against such property owners, at the time of the
actual installation of such water line, the cost thereof will not be assessed
at the time of the actual installation of such water line, but may be paid by
any owner or consumer benefited thereby at such time as he or she may actually
connect to such water line. The resolution shall further provide for the actual
front foot charge to be made for the installation of such water line and
further provide for the amount of interest which will be credited and
accumulated on such installation charge from the time of the installation of
the water line to the time such charge may be paid by any owner or consumer.
   (C)   (1)   A map of the village, and environs shall be established, and the
same shall be posted in the most public place on the interior of the municipal
building giving notice to all persons who may be interested, of those areas and
tracts of land in the village and environs which are subject to an additional
water line installation charge, a charge in addition to other charges made for
tapping into the village water lines. All water line installation charges
established and not paid shall be entered on the map by showing those areas in
color and all areas made subject to an installation charge in the future shall
be indicated on such map in color.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall keep the map up to date and shall indicate
on the map, as aforesaid, which areas are subject to charge and also those
areas where the charge has been paid.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.072 STANDARDS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All methods, materials and appurtenances used in water mains,
extensions and installations shall be in conformity with accepted engineering
practice including standards for such installation promulgated by the American
Water Works Association.
   (B)   No lines shall be less than six inches in diameter. All water mains
shall have four metal wedges in each joint of the pipe. All fire hydrants shall
be Mueller type, or equal, with valves on each hydrant with break-away fitting
and two, two and one-half inch and one pumper outlet.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.073 SPRINKLER SYSTEM CHARGES.
   (A)   The following rates for service lines installed, whether previously
installed or to be installed in the future, for sprinkler systems or fire lines
for fire protection connected to village water lines shall be charged and
collected from the property owner, regardless of whether or not the water meter
or sprinkler is in operation on the premises, according to the following rates:
Each service line shall pay an annual fee of $100, to be billed with the first
billing of each year.
   (B)   The above sprinkler system charges are independent of any tap charge
or fee for connecting said sprinkler system or fire lines to the village water
lines.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
PRETREATMENT
§ 51.085 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The village shall make and enforce rules and regulations establishing
the types and characteristics of sewage, and other matters which shall be
discharged into the sanitary sewage system; the types and characteristics of
sewage admissible to the system only after pretreatment; requisites for
pretreatment; and otherwise govern the discharge of sewage and other matters
into the system in the interest of safety and efficient operation of the
wastewater treatment plant.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutant into the village
wastewater system which will interfere with the normal operations of the
system, or contaminate the resulting village sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the village
wastewater system which do not receive adequate treatment at the publicly owned
treatment works (POTW), and which will pass through the system into receiving
waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system; and
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.086 DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   In cases where the character of sewage or industrial wastes from any
manufacturing or industrial plant, building or premises is such that it will
damage the sewage system, or cannot be treated satisfactorily at the wastewater
plant, the village shall compel such users to dispose of such waste so as to
prevent it from entering the sewage system of the village.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.087 PRETREATMENT REQUIRED.
   In cases where the character of sewage or industrial wastes from any
manufacturing or industrial plant, building or premises shows excessive flow
rates or a concentration of pollutants such that it imposes an unreasonable
burden upon the sewage collection, pumping or treatment works greater than
imposed by the average sewage entering the sewage system, the village may
compel such manufacturing or industrial plant, building or premises to pretreat
such sewage in such manner as specified by the village before discharging it
into the sewage system; require flow control of equalizations of such wastes so
as to avoid any slug loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the
treatment works to cover any additional costs of having the capacity for
receiving and treating such wastes.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.088 HIGH STRENGTH SURCHARGES.
   In addition to the minimum charge and any volume charges, any user
discharging wastewater containing biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) in excess of
200 mg/l or total suspended solids (TSS) in excess of 200 mg/l or grease and
fat in excess of 0.17 mg/l shall pay the following surcharges:
 
BOD            $0.42 per pound of excess over 200 mg/l
Grease and fat $0.35 per pound of excess over 0.17 mg/l
TSS            $0.37 per pound of excess over 200 mg/l
By-pass of pretreatment equipment or pretreatment process will not be
permitted
 
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.089 UNIT COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   When the proposed unit exceeds the normal household or plant design
maximum per unit influent of strength, volume and or flow, there will be a
monthly unit charge equated on the displacement of units.
   (B)   Equations:
      (1)   Lbs/BOD/day divided by 0.167 lbs/BOD/person/day = number of
persons;
      (2)   Number of persons divided by three persons/household = number of
household units;
      (3)   Household units x $6.50 per monthly service charge = unit
displacement charge; and
      (4)   Unit displacement charge x two months = charge per billing.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.090 SLUG DISCHARGE FEE.
   Other wastewater, containing acceptable waste only, delivered to the
treatment system, shall pay a fee of $2 per 1,000 gallons, and shall be subject
to the high strength surcharges. To determine slug loads, the 40% volume costs
calculations shall be used. All volume over the 40% flow rate for a normal
working day shall be a subject to a high volume charge: GPD - work hour x 40% =
GPH allowed.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.091 METERING AND MONITORING FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the other charges, each user shall be charged the
current lab cost for testing for each sampling and metering required for high
strength surcharges, industrial cost recovery or ascertaining pretreatment
compliance. A fee shall be charged for each sampling period in which samples
are collected and analyzed. Sampling periods shall not exceed a 24-hour day.
Sampling shall be done during regular working hours.
   (B)   Any testing done by any private or independent lab will be charged the
current lab charges of such private or independent lab plus travel time for
sample container pickup and delivery, and any postage incurred as a result of
outside sampling. Mileage shall be charged at the current reimbursement rate
established by the village. The village employee picking up and delivering any
outside sample shall be paid his or her current rate of pay for the time
involved.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.092 PRETREATMENT; MONITORING FACILITIES.
   Each industrial or commercial discharger, as deemed necessary by the
village, shall provide and operate, at their own expense, a monitoring facility
to allow inspections, sampling and flow measurement of each sewer discharge to
the POTW. Each monitoring facility shall be situated on the discharger’s
premises, except where such a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the discharger, the village may concur with the facility being
constructed in the public street or sidewalk strip, providing that the facility
is located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles.
There shall be ample room in or near such sampling facility to allow accurate
sampling or preparation of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition at the expense of the discharger. All monitoring facilities
shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with any and all applicable
local construction standards and specifications.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.093 PRETREATMENT; INSPECTIONS AND SAMPLING.
   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator may inspect the
monitoring facilities of any industrial or commercial discharger to determine
compliance with the terms of this chapter. The discharger shall allow
representatives of the village to enter upon the premises of the discharger at
all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection, sampling or examination of
records. The village shall have the right to set up, on the discharger’s
property, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection,
compliance, monitoring and/or metering operations.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.094 ENFORCEMENT; EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   The village may, for good cause shown, suspend the wastewater treatment
service to an industrial or commercial discharger when it appears to the
village that an actual or threatened discharge presents or threatens an
imminent or substantial danger to the health or welfare of the persons or
property, substantial danger to the environment, interferes with the operation
of the POTW or violates any pretreatment limits imposed by this chapter. Any
treatment service shall, within a reasonable period of time as determined by
the village, cease all discharge. In the event of a failure of the discharger
to comply voluntarily with the suspension order within the time specified, the
village may commence judicial proceedings immediately thereafter to compel
compliance with such order. The village may reinstate wastewater treatment
service and terminate judicial proceedings upon clear and convincing proof of
the discharger of the elimination of the non-complying conditions which created
the threat of imminent or substantial danger as set forth above.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.095 REVOCATION OF TREATMENT SERVICE.
   The village may terminate the wastewater treatment services to any
industrial or commercial discharger who fails to factually report the
wastewater constituents and characteristics of its discharge; report
significant changes in wastewater constituents and characteristics; permit
reasonable access to the discharger’s premises by representatives of the
village for the purpose of inspections or monitoring; and adhere to the
conditions of this chapter, or any final judicial order entered with respect
hereto. Whenever the village finds that any discharger has engaged in conduct
which justified termination of the wastewater treatment service, the Board
shall serve or cause to be served upon such discharger a written notice, either
personally or by certified mail, stating the nature of the violation. Within
seven days of the receipt of the notice, the discharger shall respond,
personally or in writing, to the village, advising of its position with respect
to the violations. Thereafter, the parties shall meet to ascertain the truth of
the violations and, where necessary, establish a plan for the satisfactory
correction thereof.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
SEWER CONNECTIONS, USAGE AND CHARGES
§ 51.105 REVENUE AND EXPENSES.
   All revenue derived from or obtained in the course of the operation of the
sewer system shall be placed to the credit of the sewer accounts of the village
from which the costs and expenses of the sewer system shall be paid except as
provided by the village from time to time.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.106 NO GUARANTEE OF SERVICE.
   Because variable conditions may arise in the operation and maintenance of
the sewer system, the availability of sewer service to consumers is without
guarantee.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.107 DAMAGE OR OBSTRUCTION; UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS.
   No person shall damage or obstruct the sewer system or make any connection
or use the sewer system without first having received the permits required to
do so.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.108 UNAUTHORIZED SERVICE.
   No person shall permit another person to use the sewer system except as
provided in this subchapter and sewer service shall not be resold by any
person.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.109 SHUTOFF FOR MAINTENANCE OR REPAIR.
   Sewer service to consumers may be discontinued without notice if breaks in
sewer mains occur, pumping equipment breaks down, construction, reconstruction,
repair, replacement, cleaning, extending or tapping of mains requires, and no
claims for damages of any nature whatsoever arising from such action shall be
paid.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.110 LINES UNDER CONSTRUCTION TO BE SEALED.
   All sewer lines and connection taps under construction shall be kept tightly
sealed to prevent surface or storm water from entering the sewer system.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.111 UNPOLLUTED WATER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any surface or unpolluted ground water, subsurface
drainage, rain or storm water, water from condensers, water motors, heat
exchangers or cooling towers or unpolluted waste water from any source to enter
the sewer system, except as provided herein.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.112 PROCESS OR COOLING WATER TO STORM DRAIN.
   (A)   Every consumer to whom water is delivered which is not polluted by its
use on the consumer’s premises shall discharge such polluted water into the
storm drain or, if no storm drain is situated adjacent to the consumer’s
premises, into a storm water drainage ditch.
   (B)   Every consumer discharging such unpolluted water as required by this
section shall, within 30 days of notice thereof given by the village, install a
meter to separately register the amount of water discharged into any sewer or
storm water drainage ditch and shall make such plumbing changes as are required
by this section.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.113 CALCULATION OF CHARGE.
   The charge for sewer service provided in this chapter shall be based on the
monthly quantity of water delivered to the consumer as evidenced by the
consumer’s water meter or, if no such meter is used, by such other device or
calculation approved by the village.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.114 CHARGES FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   Each consumer or owner whose premises within the village is connected to the
sewer system shall pay to the village for the connection and for sewer service
for each dwelling, commercial, manufacturing or other unit served, a service
charge as follows, together with such additional charges based on the amount of
water consumed per monthly billing at the usage rates shown below.
   (A)   Service charge.
      (1)   Residential users: $26 per month;
      (2)   Commercial users: $30 per month; and
      (3)   Heavy users, heavy users being defined as those consumers or owners
discharging 15,000 gallons per month of metered water into the sanitary sewer
system, regardless of the source of said water: $35 per month.
   (B)   Additional usage.
 
Rate                                                    Sewer Charges
First 4,000 gallons or lessor amount per billing        $3.70 per 1,000 gallons
All usage over 4,000 gallons up to 20,000 gallons per   $4.70 per 1,000 gallons
billing
All usage over 20,000 up to 100,000 gallons per billing $3.70 per 1,000 gallons
All usage over 100,000 gallons                          $3.55 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   Minimum service charge. In no case shall the minimum service charge be
less than $26 per month. Customers located within the village corporation
limits who are customers of the sanitary sewer system but are not customers of
the village water system, shall pay either a minimum charge per month equal to
that owed by a customer of the village water system using 8,000 gallons per
month, or shall pay in accordance with the foregoing schedule based upon their
metered usage from their own private water system, said metered usage to be
determined by said customer installing, at his or her own expense, an approved
water meter upon their private water system. Said customers shall elect the
method of charge in writing and shall notify the village of said election.
Service to industrial establishments may be by contract if it is determined
that this is in the best interest of the village.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-04-2007, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 51.115 STATEMENTS: PENALTIES; DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Statements for the charge for sewer service shall be rendered monthly
on or about the first day of the billing month for each consumer as determined
by the village and the amount of all such charges shall be paid to the village
on or before the twentieth day of the billing month. If the amount of the
charges to a consumer is not paid on or before the twentieth day of the billing
month, an additional charge of 25% of the unpaid charges shall be added thereto
and become part of such unpaid charges.
   (B)   (1)   It is the policy of the village to discontinue utility service
to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The village’s form for
application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the
title, address, room number and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill;
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the
village official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be
authorized to order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall
have the authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the village to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $35.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-06-2019, passed - -2019)
§ 51.116 CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before any connection is made for the use of the sewer system by a consumer,
the owner of the property to be served or the consumer shall apply to the
village for a connection permit which, after the fees and charges required
herein have been paid to the village and the plans, information, documents and
assurances required herein have been submitted to the village shall be issued
by the village.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.117 PERMIT APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   Applications for connection permits shall be made in a form required by the
village and shall contain such information necessary to determine the
ownership, location, use or proposed use of the property to be served, the
amount of sewage likely to be discharged by the consumer, the location of the
building or other point of discharge on the property and such other
information, plans, documents and assurances required by the village to process
the application. They shall be filed with the Village Clerk.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.118 INSPECTION BEFORE APPROVAL.
   The Sewer Inspector shall inspect all sewer service connections and lines
and shall not approve the delivery of water to the premises unless the sewer
service connection and line have been installed in conformance with approved
standards for materials and workmanship.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.119 EXTENSION UNDER PAVEMENT.
   No person shall extend sewer service lines under driveways, sidewalks or
other paved areas except for the shortest distance required.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.120 SERVICE AND PRIVILEGES AUTHORIZED BY CONNECTION PERMIT.
   An approved connection permit authorizes a property owner or consumer to
connect to and discharge sewer into the sewer system as permitted in this
chapter and as restricted by the village from time to time and in a like manner
and with the same privileges as other property owners and consumers connected
to the sewer system. The village will oversee and inspect the tapping of the
sewer main serving the property owner’s or consumer’s premises.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.121 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPERTY OWNER OR CONSUMER.
   (A)   The property owner or consumer shall be responsible for all costs of
materials and work necessary to install a sewer service line and appurtenances,
which shall begin at the sewer main serving the premises and continue to or
onto the property served or point of use.
   (B)   The property owner or consumer shall expose the sewer main at the
point to be tapped.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.122 UNAUTHORIZED TAPS.
   No person shall make or use any tap or connection except as authorized by
the village.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.123 PEAK DEMAND FLOW.
   The sewer service connection and sewer service line to the premises to be
served shall be of sufficient size as determined by accepted engineering
practice to accept the flow of sewage discharged into the sewer service line by
the consumer at peak demand, and in no case less than four inches normal
diameter.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.124 SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Each separate lot, parcel or tract of land shall be connected to the sewer
system and each unit shall be separately charged for sewer service.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.125 PRIVIES, CESSPOOLS AND PRIVATE SEWERS PROHIBITED IF PUBLIC SEWER
AVAILABLE.
   No owner, agent, lessee, tenant or occupant of any lot of land located
within the village shall establish, construct, maintain or permit to remain a
privy, cesspool or other receptacle for sewage or excreta, or a connection to a
private sewer, ditch or other outlet, if such lot or land is accessible to a
public sewer constructed and used for the purpose of conveying sewage, and if a
public water main or other water supply satisfactory to permit use of plumbing
is available. When such public sewer and water mains or other water supply are
available or are hereafter made available, a connection to such public utility
shall be established and used by such owner, agent, lessee, tenant or occupant.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.126 RESPONSIBILITY FOR CHARGES.
   The owner of the premises served and the occupant thereof and the user of
the sanitary sewer service shall be jointly and severally liable for the sewer
service provided said premises. The provisions of §§
51.021 and
51.022 hereby apply to all properties serviced by the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.127 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste which ordinarily would
be regarded as sewage or industrial waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within said
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said village, any sanitary
sewage, industrial waste or other polluted waters, except where suitable
treatment has been provided in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The owner of the houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the village
and abutting any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sewer or combined sewer of the village,
is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect the provisions of this chapter, within ten days after
date of official notice to do so.
   (D)   The municipality shall install and maintain at its expenses that
portion of the service from the main to the lot or easement line, and the
customer shall install and maintain at his or her expense that portion of the
service from said lot or easement line to his or her premises. The size and
slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the approval of the authorized
personnel of the municipality, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.128 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the village. Before a permit may
be issued for excavating for plumbing in any public street, way or alley, the
person applying for such permit shall be executed unto the village and
deposited with the said village a corporate surety in the sum of $2,000
conditioned that he or she will perform faithfully all work with the due care
and skill, and in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations established
under the authority of any ordinance of the village pertaining to plumbing.
This bond shall state that the person will indemnify and save harmless the
village and the owner of the premises against all damages, costs, expenses,
outlays and claims of every nature and kind arising out of unskillfulness or
negligence on his or her part in connection with plumbing or excavating for
plumbing as prescribed in this chapter. Such bond shall remain in force and
must be executed for a period of one year except that on such expiration, it
shall remain in force as to all penalties, claims and demands that may have
accrued thereunder prior to such expiration.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
service and for service to commercial industrial buildings. In either case, the
owner or his or her agent shall make application on a special form furnished by
said village. The permit applications shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
Inspector. A permit and inspection fee of $5 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $10 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the village at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for said owner shall indemnify or indirectly be
occasioned by said installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer. Other exceptions will be allowed only by
special permission granted by the village.
   (E)   Old building sewer or portions thereof, may be used in connection with
new buildings only when they are found on examination and test by the said
Inspector to meet all requirements of this subchapter.
   (F)   The building sewer shall be constructed of either vitrified clay sewer
pipe and fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M. specifications for standard or
extra strength clay sewer pipe, asbestos cement, plastic P.V.C. pipe and
fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M. specifications or the Department of
Commerce commercial standards for extra heavy cast iron soil pipe and fittings
or concrete sewer pipe fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M. specifications for
standard or extra strength concrete sewer pipe. If installed in filled or
unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe, except
that vitrified clay pipe or concrete pipe, may be accepted if laid on a
suitable bed or cradle as approved by said Inspector.
   (G)   (1)   All joints and connections shall be made gas tight and water
tight. Vitrified clay sewer pipe shall be fitted with factory made resilient
compression joints meeting A.S.T.M. specifications for vitrified clay pipe
joints having resilient properties (Designation C425). Concrete sewer pipe
joints shall be of rubber ring, flexible compression type, similar and equal to
joint specified for vitrified clay pipe.
      (2)   Before joining the pipe in the trench, the bell and spigot surfaces
shall be wiped free of dirt or other foreign matter. A lubricant or sealer as
recommended by the pipe manufacturer shall be applied to the bell and spigot
mating surfaces just before they are joined together. The spigot shall be
positioned into the bell end of the pipe previously laid and shall then be
shoved home to compress the joint and to assure a tight fit between the
interfaces. Joint for cast iron soil pipe shall be made by inserting a roll of
hemp or jute and thoroughly caulking it into place and then following with pure
molten lead well caulked, not less than one-inch deep. No paint, varnish or
putty will be allowed in the joints until they have been tested and approved.
Joints for cast iron soil pipe may also be of an acceptable compression type;
asbestos-cement pipe joints shall be made with sleeves and rubber sealing
rings. Plastic P.V.C. pipe joints shall be made with sleeves and/or rubber
sealing rings.
   (H)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the said Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches. The slope of such four-inch pipe shall not be less than one-eighth
inch per foot. A slope of one-fourth inch per foot shall be used whenever
practical.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. The depth shall be sufficient to
afford protection from frost. All excavations required for the installation of
a building sewer shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the
said Inspector. Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
A.S.T.M. specification (Designation C12) except that no backfill shall be
placed until the work has been inspected by the Inspector or his or her
representative.
   (J)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer. No
water operated sewage ejector shall be used.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch designated for that property, if such branch is
available at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated “Y”
branch is the main sewer, shall be made only as directed by the said Inspector.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the said Inspector
two working days before planned excavation is to begin on the sewer hook-up.
Additionally, the applicant for the building sewer shall notify the said
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connections to
the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
said Inspector or his or her representative.
   (M)   All excavations for the building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in manner satisfactory to the said
village.
   (N)   The municipality shall in no event be held responsible for claims made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by
reason of any other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of
machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to
damages or have any portion of a payment refunded for such interruption.
   (O) The premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall at all reasonable
hours be subject to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the
municipality.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.129 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, unpolluted industrial process waters or anything other than
acceptable wastes, to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewer, any substance which may cause the POTW effluent or treatment residues,
sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for reclamation and re-use, or to interfere
with the reclamation process. In no case shall a substance discharged to the
POTW cause the POTW to be in non-compliance with sludge use or disposal
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of the Solid Waste
Disposal Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345; the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et
seq.; or with the state’s standards applicable to the sludge management method
being used.
   (C)   Applications may be cancelled and/or sewer service discontinued by the
municipality for any violation of any rule, regulation or condition of service,
and especially for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property or fixtures
to be serviced by the sanitary sewer system;
      (2)   Nonpayment of bills; and
      (3)   Improper or imperfect service pipes and fixtures, or failure to
keep same in suitable state of repair.
   (D)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having
harmful or objectionable characteristics shall be subject to the review and
approval of the village, who may prescribe limits on the strength and character
of those waters or wastes. Where necessary, in the opinion of the village, the
owner shall provide at his or her expenses, such preliminary treatments may be
necessary to treat these wastes prior to discharge to the public sewer. Plans,
specifications and any other pertinent information relating to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
said village and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until
said approval is obtained in writing. Where preliminary treatment facilities
are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (E)   When required by the village, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install and maintain at his or
her expense a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate
observation sampling and measurement of the wastes. All measurements, tests and
analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Waste Water Manual as approved by the EPA and shall be determined at
the control manhole or upon suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In
the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall
be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (F)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the said Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount, or any flammable wastes,
sand and other harmful ingredients except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. Where installed, they
shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.130 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewer works. Any person violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.131 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator, Inspector and
other duly authorized employees of the village bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.132 NON-ACCEPTABLE WASTES.
   No user shall discharge or deposit or cause or allow to be discharged or
deposited into the sewer system any wastewater which contains:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 104ºF (40ºC);
   (B)   Any substance which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between 32ºF and 104ºF (0ºC and 40ºC);
   (C)   Oil and grease concentrations or amounts from industrial facilities
violating federal, local or state pretreatment standards;
   (D)   Wastewater from industrial facilities containing floatable fats, wax,
grease or oils;
   (E)   Wax, grease or oil concentrations of mineral origin exceeding 50 mg/
l whether emulsified or not;
   (F)   Wastewater having a pH of less than six or more than eight;
   (G)   Liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or quantity
are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other substances
to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the sewage
facilities or to the operation of the system. At no time shall explosive or
hazardous material be discharged in to the sewer system. Prohibited materials
include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene,
zylene, ethers, alcohols, keyones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchalorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, sulfides or any pollutant
identified in the federal priority pollutant list adopted by the U.S. EPA;
   (H)   Noxious or malodorous solids, liquids or gasses, which, either singly
or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of creating a public nuisance
or hazard to life, or acre or may be sufficient to prevent entry into a sewer
or its maintenance and repair;
   (I)   Garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely in suspension under flow conditions
normally prevailing in the public sewers, with no particle greater than one-
half inch in any dimension;
   (J)   Solid or viscous wastes which will or may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer, or otherwise interfere with the proper operation of the
wastewater treatment system. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited
to, grease, uncomminuted garbage, animal guts or tissues, paunch, manure,
bones, hair, hides of fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dilutes, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood,
plastic, tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining of processing of fuel or
lubricating oil and similar substances;
   (K)   Any unpolluted water which will increase the hydraulic loading on the
plant including, but not limited to, any storm water, surface water, ground
water, roof run-off water, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or
uncontaminated industrial process waters. The applies strictly to all new
connections. All existing connections may be approved or rejected after review
of hardship and/or other considerations by the village;
   (L)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration that
they do not comply with municipal, state or federal regulations or orders
issued by the appropriate authority having control over their use and which
will or may cause damage to the sewage facilities or create dangerous or
hazardous conditions for the personnel operating the system;
   (M)   Wastes with objectionable color not removable by the treatment
process;
   (N)   Any waste which will cause corrosion or deterioration of the sewage
system. All wastes discharged to the public sewer system must have a pH value
in the range of 6 to 8 standard units. Prohibited materials, include, but are
not limited to, acids, sulfides, concentrated chloride and fluoride compounds
and substances which will react with water to form acidic products;
   (O)   Any substance determined by the village to be toxic in concentrations
in excess of tolerable limits as promulgated by the village;
   (P)   Any chemical elements or compounds or other waste or odor substances
which are not susceptible to treatment or that will pass through the system;
and
   (Q)   Any chemical element or compounds or other substances which, may
interfere with the biological process or efficiency of the treatment process.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.133 CONTROL OF NON-ACCEPTABLE WASTES.
   (A)   If wastewaters containing any substance described in §
51.132 are discharged or proposed to be discharged into the sewage system of
the village or to any sewer system tributary thereto, the village may take any
action necessary to:
      (1)   Prohibit the discharge of such wastewater;
      (2)   Require a discharger to demonstrate that implant modifications will
reduce or eliminate the discharge of such substances in conformity with this
subchapter;
      (3)   Require pretreatment, including storage facilities, or flow or
temperature equalization necessary to reduce or eliminate the objectionable
characteristics or substances so that the discharge will not violate these
rules and regulations;
      (4)   Require any person making, causing or allowing the discharge to pay
any additional costs or expense incurred by the village for handling and
treating excess loads imposed on the treatment system; and
      (5)   Take such other remedial action as may be deemed to be desirable or
necessary to achieve the purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Users required to pretreat or equalize wastewater flows or temperature
prior to discharge into any part of the sewage system must submit plans,
specifications and other pertinent date relating to such pretreatment or flow-
control facilities to the village for review and approval prior to
installation. Approval by the village shall not exempt the user, the facilities
or the discharge from compliance with any applicable code, ordinance, law,
rule, regulation or order of any governmental authority. No user shall make any
subsequent alterations or additions to such pretreatment or flow-control
facilities before obtaining the prior approval of the village.
   (C)   Users required to pretreat or equalize wastewater flows or
temperatures shall maintain and repair facilities required to do so in good
working order and shall operate such facilities as efficiently as possible at
their own cost and expense including such reporting devices and procedures as
the village shall require to ensure compliance with any applicable pretreatment
regulations. The maintenance, operation and repair of such facilities shall be
subject to all other applicable codes, laws and ordinance.
   (D)   User shall provide protection from accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other wastes required by this chapter by the installation,
maintenance, operation and repair at their own expense of such facilities as
are necessary as determined by the village. If so ordered by the village, users
shall submit detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide this protection for review and approval by the village prior to
construction of such facilities. Such review and approval shall not relieve any
user from responsibility to modify his or her plans, facilities or operating
procedures as necessary to meet the requirements of this subchapter.
   (E)   If a user fails or refused to submit acceptable plans in accordance
with division (D) of this section, the village may draw or cause to be drawn
acceptable plans for such user at such user’s expense.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.134 TESTS, MEASUREMENTS AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   All tests, measurements and analysis of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for, or
upon commercial suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event
that no special control manhole is provided the village may, at its option,
order users discharging industrial wastes into the sewage system to construct
and maintain one or more control manholes or access points to facilitate
observation, measurement and sampling of its wastewater. Control manholes,
access facilities and related equipment shall be installed and maintained by
the user, at his or her expense, and shall be maintained in a safe condition,
accessible and in proper operating conditions at all times. Plans for the
installation of the control manholes or access facilities and related equipment
shall be approved by the village prior to the beginning of construction.
   (B)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the water pollution control station and
to determine the existence of hazards of life, limb and property. Composite
samples shall be taken normally. The total time and frequency (such as 24 hours
and 15-minute intervals) of a particular sampling operation shall be determined
by the village as experience and prevailing conditions indicate, and shall be
determined by the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Waste Water Manual approved by the EPA.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.135 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE.
   Any person found violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
served by the village with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time for the satisfactory correction thereof, the
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations. If the offender continues the violation after the
expiration of the time stated, the village may prohibit the further use of the
wastewater collection and treatment system by the offender and may remove or
close the offender’s water and wastewater connections.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Refusal to pay the assessed costs in this chapter shall constitute a
violation of this chapter, and shall result in a fine of $500 or imprisonment
for not more than six months, or both, for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which such a violation occurs
or continues.
   (B)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of §§
51.015 through
51.033,
51.045 through
51.073,
51.085 through
51.095 or any rule, regulation or order promulgated pursuant to this chapter
shall be fined $500 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both. Except
where otherwise provided, a separate offense shall be deemed committed each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person violating §
51.032 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $250.
Each day shall be considered to be a separate violation. In addition to all
other penalties, any violations will subject the permit being granted to be
revoked, and said user will not be permitted to dump well water into the
village sanitary sewer system in the future.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever except as otherwise provided herein, in §§
51.105 through
51.135, any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an
offense or a misdemeanor, or the doing of any act is required or the failure to
do any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, the
violator of any such provision of this chapter, except where another penalty is
provided, shall be fined $500 or imprisoned not more than six months, or both.
      (2)   Except where otherwise provided, a separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   Whoever continues any violation of §§
51.132 through
51.134 beyond the limit of time provided for in this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined $10,000. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. O-31-80, passed 1-5-1981; Ord. O-5-95, passed - -1995)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Regulations
   
52.03   Prohibited substances
   
52.04   Limited substances
   
52.05   Control of wastewater discharges
   
52.06   Additional regulations
   
52.07   Septage receiving facility use regulations
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,(now the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), and any amendments thereto;
together with any guidelines, limitations and standards promulgated by the EPA
pursuant to the Act.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet outside the exterior face of the building wall. This definition includes
pipes and drains which carry polluted wastewater and specifically excludes
footer and foundation drains.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   BY-PASS. The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of the
village’s wastewater treatment plant.
   CBOD (CARBONACEOUS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). A measure of dissolved oxygen
required during the stabilization of the carbonaceous portion of organic matter
through biochemical action, which shall be measured according to 40 C.F.R. §
133.101. CBOD shall be measured as milligrams per liter five days at 20ºC.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and surface run-
off or ground water.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on all users of the wastewater
treatment works to provide funds necessary to meet the principal and interest
payments of the debt incurred to pay for the cost of the wastewater treatment
works improvements, based upon the volume of wastewater flow from each user.
   DOMESTIC. A residential user of the wastewater treatment works.
   DOMESTIC WASTES. Wastes originating from a residential user of the
wastewater treatment works or from sanitary conveniences that are operated by
an industrial user, commercial user or an institutional/governmental user.
DOMESTIC WASTES do not include industrial wastes.
   EPA. The Ohio Environmental Protection Agency, the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or any person authorized to act for either
agency.
   EXTRA STRENGTH SURCHARGE. A charge levied on some users of the wastewater
treatment works (in addition to a user charge) for wastes discharged which
exceed normal concentrations, based upon the volume of wastewater flow from
each user. The EXTRA STRENGTH SURCHARGE shall be based upon average
concentrations of wastes weighted in proportion to volume of flow, determined
each billing period by the method most practical to the village, in the Water
and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator’s opinion.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GREASE. A constituent in wastewater as identified in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A constituent in wastewater which interferes with
the operation and performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Any liquid, gaseous or solid waste resulting from any
process, industry, trade or business, or from the development, processing or
recovery of any natural resource, together with such sewage as is present.
   INTERCEPTING SEWER. A sewer intended to receive flows from both combined
sewers and sanitary sewers, or a sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector (local) sewers to the wastewater treatment plant.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
processes or operations, its sludge processes, use or disposal; and therefore,
is a cause of a violation of the village’s NPDES permit or the prevention of
sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the following statutory
provisions or permits issued thereunder, or any more stringent state or local
regulations: § 405 of the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act, including Title II
commonly referred to as the Reserve Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.); any state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the Solid Waste Disposal
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.; the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et
seq.; and the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuaries Act, being 16 U.S.C.
§§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse or into the waters of the state.
   NORMAL CONCENTRATIONS. Wastewater which does not exceed the following
concentrations shall be considered to be of normal concentrations:
      (1)    CBOD: 200 mg/l; and
      (2)    Suspended solids: 300 mg/l.
   NOTICE. Notice of a fact or event to be given to a user pursuant to this
chapter shall be in writing and sent by first class mail to the user at the
address to which the user’s water and sewer bill is to be sent at the time said
notice is given.
   NPDES PERMIT. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit No.
3PC00100*DD or an equivalent document or requirements issued by the state EPA
to the village to regulate the discharge of pollutants.
   PASS-THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of
the village NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of
a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, industry, association, society,
corporation or group.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of the hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of
solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any noxious chemical or other refuse material that impairs the
purity of water.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction
into the building drain. Septic tanks shall not be considered PRETREATMENT.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer constructed and serving individual owners or persons
under private ownership.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The solid waste from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions that normally prevail in
public sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sanitary sewer in which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights, controlled by the village.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer, including conventional gravity sanitary sewers and
small diameter sanitary sewers, that carries liquid and water-carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industries and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SANITARY SEWER CHARGES. The aggregate of rates established by three separate
charges: user charges, extra strength surcharges and debt service charges.
   SEPTAGE. The materials, both liquid and solid, removed from a septic tank.
   SEPTIC TANK. A watertight covered receptacle designed and constructed to
receive the discharge of wastewater from a building sewer and to discharge the
effluent from the settled and floating solids.
   SEWAGE. Any substance that contains any of the waste products or
excrementitious or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals,
which if discharged would cause pollution to the waters of the state.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of said constituent or quantity of said flows during normal operation, and
which concentration or quantity of said flows during normal operation, and
which concentration or quantity of flow shall adversely affect the performance
of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The latest edition of the publication, Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water, Sewage and Industrial Wastes, as published by the
American Public Health Association.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water, subsurface water or
unpolluted water from any source.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect under the NPDES permit or water that would not cause
violation of the receiving water quality standards and would not be benefitted
by discharge to the sanitary sewers and treatment at the wastewater treatment
plant.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is an unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the village.
   USER. A person who discharges wastewater to the wastewater treatment works.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on all users of the wastewater treatment works
with normal concentrations of waste for the cost of operation, maintenance and
replacement of such works, based upon the volume of wastewater flow from each
user.
      (1)   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. The administration, monitoring,
inspection, reviewing applications, maintenance of equipment, collection,
pumping, treatment and disposing of wastewater, necessary to assure adequate
wastewater collection and treatment on a continuing basis which conforms to
applicable regulations and assures optimal long-term facility management.
      (2)   REPLACEMENT. The acquisition and installation of equipment,
accessories and appurtenances necessary during the service life of the
wastewater treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which
said works were designed and constructed.
   USER CLASS. Any class of users of the wastewater treatment works, defined as
follows.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. Any non-residential or non-industrial user that
discharges waste to the sanitary sewer system from a commercial establishment.
A commercial establishment can mean, but is not necessarily limited to, retail
establishments, service enterprises and other business or community activities.
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any non-governmental user discharging an
industrial waste to a publicly owned treatment works as identified as a
Division A, B, D, E, or I industry in the Standard Classification Manual, 1972,
Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented. A user in the
Division A, B, D, E, or I may be excluded if it is determined that the industry
will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL/GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any non-residential, non-
industrial and non-commercial user that discharges waste to the sanitary sewer
from an institutional/governmental establishment. An institutional/governmental
establishment can mean, but is not necessarily limited to, education
facilities, churches and synagogues, and federal, state and local governmental
administration and service facilities.
      (4)   RESIDENTIAL USER. Any person that discharges waste to the sanitary
sewer system from a dwelling unit. A dwelling unit can mean, but is not
necessarily limited to, houses, apartments, manufactured homes and mobile
homes, used primarily for residential occupancy.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Strasburg, Tuscarawas County, Ohio, and any area
under its jurisdiction.
   VILLAGE SPECIFICATIONS. The most recent version of the village standard
specifications for sanitary sewers adopted by Council.
   WASTEWATER or WASTES. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of
source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried sewage from
residences, commercial buildings, industries and institutions, together with
any ground water, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the wastewater treatment works
required to treat wastewater and septage and dispose of the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. The structures, equipment, parcels of land,
easements and processes required to collect, carry away and treat wastewater
and dispose of the effluent of the village. WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS shall
include septic tanks, sanitary sewers and intercepting sewers, but shall not
include storm sewers. Also known as the PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, marshes, watercourses, waterways,
wells, springs, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or
accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, which
are situated wholly or partly within, or border upon, the state, or are within
its jurisdiction, except those private waters which do not combine or effect a
function with natural surface or underground waters.
(Ord. O-20-2007, passed 1-2-2008)
§ 52.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit, or permit to
be placed or deposited, in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property
within the village any human excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
village any wastewater, septage, industrial wastes or other pollutants, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with this chapter.
Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to control wastes which are discharged
pursuant to any NPDES permit, other than the NPDES permit issued to the
village.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
cesspool or other facility intended or used for ultimate disposal of
wastewater. In areas where sanitary sewers are not available for connection, or
if the structure is not within 200 feet of an existing sanitary sewer, septic
tank and leach field installations may be installed with prior written approval
from the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator. Septic tank and
leach field installations shall be installed per County Health Department
requirements.
   (D)   In making tap connections to the sanitary sewer lines of the village,
all existing septic tanks shall be bypassed. No sewage passing through a septic
tank shall be discharged into the sanitary sewer lines of the village.
   (E)   Every person who owns any real property which has a structure located
on it which contains sanitary conveniences shall connect to the sanitary sewer
if the structure is within 200 feet of the sanitary sewer, within 60 days of
the effective date of this chapter, the erection of said structure or the
installation of said sanitary conveniences, whichever occurs last. If the
person fails to connect within said period, the village shall give the owner
notice of this connection requirement. If no connection is made within 30 days
of the receipt of said notice, the village shall then proceed to make such
connection at the expense of the owner and assess it against the real property
so served. Sanitary sewers and all connections shall be constructed in
accordance with the village specifications.
   (F)   No down spouts, surface water drains or other devices for collecting
storm or surface water drainage from any structure or surface area shall be
permitted to connect or drain into the village sanitary sewer system.
   (G)   No broken pipes, tiles or other drainage devices shall be permitted in
the sanitary sewer system of the village, whether on public or private
property; nor shall subsurface water be permitted to enter the system through
improper fitting connections.
   (H)   The village, through its authorized agents, shall be permitted to
enter onto the property of any village residence, commercial, industrial or
other property within the village, or upon the property of any such user of the
village sanitary sewer system, and upon any lands through which the village
sanitary sewer system traverses, for the purpose of checking for leaks, smoke
testing and for any other lawful purpose to ascertain that all surface and
underground waters are not directed or permitted to flow into the sanitary
sewer system.
   (I)   As soon as the village has determined that surface, subsurface or
other waters not permitted in the sanitary sewer system are entering such
system, it shall, by certified mail, or any other method deemed advisable by
the village, cause notice of the infiltration or improper connection to be
served upon the property owner. Following receipt of such notice, the property
owner shall have 60 days in which to repair, replace or disconnect any drain,
tile or other device causing improper waters to enter the sanitary sewer
system.
   (J)   The village may use smoke, dye or any other device or devices in
checking the sanitary sewer system for leaks, broken tiles and improper
connections, and the village shall not be held responsible or liable in damages
from any damages resulting from the use thereof where improper connections or
conditions are found.
   (K)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator and
by other regulatory agencies with appropriate jurisdiction. Unpolluted
industrial cooling water or process waters may be discharged on approval by the
Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator to a storm sewer or
natural outlet.
   (L)   It shall be unlawful to deposit septage wastes into a public sewer,
storm sewer or natural outlet.
   (M)   Private sewers that are tributary or potentially tributary to the
public sewer shall comply with the village specifications. The village shall be
granted sufficient access or right-of-way to private sewers for inspection,
supervision, testing and enforcement of all health, sanitation, safety and
sewer regulations.
   (N)   Each user shall protect from accidental discharge of prohibited or
limited substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental
discharge of said substances shall be provided when required by the Water and
Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator and maintained at the user’s own
cost and expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide this protection shall be submitted to the Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator for review, and shall be approved by
Council before construction of the facility may begin. Review and approval of
such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the user of the
responsibility to modify the facility as necessary to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
   (O)   In the case of an accidental discharge of prohibited or limited
substances regulated by this chapter, the user shall immediately notify the
Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator of the incident. The
notification shall include the location of the discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, and corrective actions taken by the user to prevent
future discharges. Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user
shall submit to the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator a
detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge and measures to
be taken to prevent similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not
relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be
incurred as a result of damage to the wastewater treatment works, fish kills or
any other damage to person or property, nor shall such notification relieve the
user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be imposed by
this chapter or other applicable law.
   (P)   Instructions advising the user’s employees of the proper notification
procedures in the event of an accidental discharge of prohibited or limited
substances regulated by this chapter shall be permanently posted by the user in
an prominent place. Employers shall advise all employees who may cause such a
discharge to occur of said notification procedures.
   (Q)   No authorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, alter, remove, uncover, deface, interfere with or
tamper with, or cause another to do the same, any sewer, structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater treatment works.
(Ord. O-20-2007, passed 1-2-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to the public sewer:
   (A)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW any
pollutant or wastewater which causes pass-through or interference. These
general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether or not they are
subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state or
local pretreatment standards or requirements;
   (B)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, thinner or other flammable,
highly volatile or explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.0 or higher than 10.5,
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
the wastewater treatment works, its personnel or to the public health and
welfare;
   (D)   Solid, viscous or other substances in quantities or of such size as to
be capable of obstructing the flow in the public sewer or otherwise interfering
with the proper operation of the wastewater treatment works including, but no
necessarily limited to, ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings,
metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, garbage that has not been
properly shredded, whole animal blood, manure, animal hair and fleshing, animal
entrails, paper dishes, cups, paper, cardboard or plastic containers; and
   (E)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (CBOD and the like)
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentrations which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, which cause interference
to the POTW.
(Ord. O-20-2007, passed 1-2-2008) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 LIMITED SUBSTANCES.
   The following described substances, materials, waters or waste shall be
discharged to the public sewer only in concentrations or quantities which will
not harm either the wastewater treatment works or its personnel, will not have
an adverse effect on the receiving stream or will not otherwise endanger lives
or public property or constitute a nuisance. The Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator may set limitations more restrictive than
the limitations established below if said limitations are necessary to meet the
objections of this chapter, in the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator’s opinion. Deliberate dilution with unpolluted water to meet the
concentrations established below shall not be acceptable. In forming an opinion
as to acceptability, the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator
shall give consideration to such facts as the quantity of subject waste in
relation to flows and velocities in the public sewer, materials of construction
of the public sewer, the wastewater treatment process employed, the capacity of
the wastewater treatment plant, the degree of treatability of the waste in the
wastewater treatment plant and other pertinent factors:
   (A)   Wastewater with a CBOD concentration greater than 600 parts per
million or with a suspended solids concentration greater than 900 parts per
million;
   (B)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150ºF;
   (C)   Wastewater containing more than 50 mg/l of petroleum oil, non-
biodegradable cutting oils, any product of mineral oil origin or floatable
oils, fat, wax or grease;
   (D)   Wastewater containing toxic, hazardous solids, liquids or gases in
sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant;
   (E)   (1)   In accordance with § 307(a) of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §
1317(a)), the following concentrations shall be considered toxic and/or
hazardous and shall not be exceeded in wastes discharged to the public sewers:
Arsenic                                            0.2 mg/l
Barium                                             1.0 mg/l
Boron                                              5.0 mg/l
Cadmium                                            0.1 mg/l
Chromium +3                                        0.5 mg/l
Chromium +6                                        0.5 mg/l
Cobalt                                             1.0 mg/l
Copper                                             0.5 mg/l
Cyanide (CN)                                       None permitted
Fluoride                                           5.0 mg/l
Iron                                               5.0 mg/l
Lead                                               0.5 mg/l
Mercury                                            0.02 mg/l
Molybdenum                                         5.0 mg/l
Nickel                                             2.0 mg/l
Phenols                                            5.0 mg/l
Radioactive substances: gross beta activity (in    1,000/micro curies per liter
the known absence of strontium and alpha emitters)
Selenium                                           0.10 mg/l
Silver                                             0.03 mg/l
Sulfides                                           50.0 mg/l
Total dissolved solids                             1,500 mg/l
Tungsten                                           5.0 mg/l
Zinc                                               2.0 mg/l
 
      (2)   These maximum concentrations may be changed as necessary by the
Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator or by federal or state
regulatory agencies based on new information concerning inhibitory substances
or to protect the treatment plant process. Industrial discharges covered by
federal pretreatment requirements shall meet those limitations specified in the
effluent regulations published pursuant to § 307(b) of the Clean Water Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317(b)), or the above concentrations, whichever limitations are more
stringent.
   (F)   Wastewater containing odor-producing substances exceeding limits which
may be established by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator
or any local or state regulatory agencies;
   (G)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a slug;
   (H)   Wastewater containing substances which are not amenable to treatment
or reduction by the wastewater treatment process employed, or are amenable to
treatment but not to such a degree that the wastewater treatment plan effluent
can meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over discharges
to the waters of the state;
   (I)   Wastewater which by interaction with other water or wastes in the
public sewer, releases obnoxious gases, forms suspended solids which interfere
with the collection system or creates a condition deleterious to the wastewater
treatment works;
   (J)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140ºF (60ºC) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
   (K)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0, or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
   (L)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
and approved by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator;
   (M)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye waste and vegetable tanning
solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s effluent,
thereby violating the village’s NPDES permit;
   (N)   Wastewater containing radioactive wastes or isotopes except in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
   (O)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
run-off, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water and unpolluted wastewater, unless authorized
by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator;
   (P)   Sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes;
   (Q)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the Water and
Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator in a wastewater discharge permit;
   (R)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test; and
   (S)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances which may cause
excessive foaming in the POTW.
(Ord. O-20-2007, passed 1-2-2008)
§ 52.05 CONTROL OF WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   If any wastewater is discharged or proposed to be discharged to the
public sewer which exceeds the normal concentrations of wastes, or which
contains the substances or possesses the characteristics enumerated in §
52.04 and which in the opinion of the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment works
or receiving waters, including a violation of applicable water quality
standards, or which may otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator may
take any or all of the following actions:
      (1)   Reject the waste and/or prohibit the further discharge of the
waste;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewer;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment by the user causing said discharge to cover the
added cost of handling and treatment of the wastewater so discharged.
   (B)   All industrial wastes discharged to the public sewer by major
contributing industries shall at a minimum meet the national pretreatment
standards or best practical control technology currently available for
incompatible pollutants as promulgated pursuant to § 307(b) of the Clean Water
Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317(b)), unless the village is committed by its NPDES permit
to remove a specified percentage of the incompatible pollutant. In those
instances, the applicable pretreatment standards may be correspondingly reduced
to levels determined by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator or by the EPA.
   (C)   If the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator requires
pretreatment or equalization of waste flow, the design and installation of the
pretreatment equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Water
and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator and the EPA, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (D)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for all wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the user at the user’s expense.
   (E)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided by the user when,
in the opinion of the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator,
they are necessary for the proper handling of wastewater containing excessive
amounts of grease and oil, or sand; except such interceptors shall not be
required for residential users. All interception units shall be of type and
capacity approved by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator.
   (F)   Within 90 days after passage of this chapter, each person whose
operation entails the discharge of industrial wastes or other wastewaters
deemed to be significant by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator to the public sewer shall prepare and file with the Water and
Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator a written statement setting forth
the nature of the operation contemplated or presently carried on, the amount
and source of water required for use, the proposed point of discharge of said
wastes into the wastewater collection system of the village, the estimated
amount to be so discharged and a statement setting forth expected bacterial,
physical, chemical and other known characteristics of said wastes. After the
passage of this chapter, every new commercial and industrial user or other
wastewaters deemed to be significant by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/
Village Administrator that applies to the village for sewer service shall
provide said information with said application. Within a reasonable time of
receipt of such statement, the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator shall make an order stating such minimum restrictions as in the
Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator’s opinion may be necessary
to adequately guard against unlawful uses of the village’s treatment works by
each of said persons.
   (G)   When circumstances exist which would place an unreasonable burden on
the person to comply with the time schedule imposed by division (F) of this
section, a written request for an extension of time stating the reasons for
such a request may be presented for the consideration of the Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator. No extension of time shall exceed 90
days.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent any special agreement or
arrangement between the village and any user whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the village for treatment,
subject to possible payment therefor by the user.
(Ord. O-20-2007, passed 1-2-2008)
§ 52.06 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator is hereby
authorized to make and enforce such regulations as may be necessary or proper
to provide for:
      (1)   The safe, economical and efficient management and protection of the
wastewater treatment works;
      (2)   The treatment, pumping and disposal of wastewater, wastes and storm
waters and any pumping, transmission or facilities therefor;
      (3)   The construction, repair, maintenance and use of the wastewater
treatment works, including the materials used in and methods employed in the
performance of work pertaining thereto; and
      (4)   Such applications, permits and other forms or documents as may be
necessary or convenient to the discharge of the Water and Sewer Superintendent/
Village Administrator’s duties and responsibilities regarding the enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Said regulations must be approved by Council. When so approved, said
regulations shall be enforced to the same extent as the provisions of this
chapter or other legislation enacted by Council, and violations thereof shall
be punished as provided in §
52.99.
(Ord. O-20-2007, passed 1-2-2008)
§ 52.07 SEPTAGE RECEIVING FACILITY USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Preamble. These regulations are promulgated pursuant to the authority
found in §
52.06 of this chapter, which authorizes the Water and Sewer Superintendent/
Village Administrator to make and enforce regulations as may be necessary or
proper regarding the operation of the wastewater treatment plant. Upon approval
by Council, these regulations shall have the same force and effect as a village
ordinance and shall be punishable as provided in §
52.99.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The same meaning as INDUSTRIAL WASTE found §
52.01.
      DOMESTIC WASTES. The same meaning as found in §
52.01.
      EXTRA-STRENGTH SURCHARGE. The same meaning as found in §
52.01.
      FACILITY. The part of the plant where domestic waste, septage and
commercial/industrial waste is accepted hereinafter sometimes referred to as
the septage receiving facility.
      INTERFERENCE. The same definition as found in §
52.01.
      PERSON. Any person, organization, corporation for profit or not for
profit, partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, estate, trust
or other commercial entity.
      PLANT. The village wastewater treatment plant.
      SEPTAGE. The same definition as found in §
52.01.
      SEPTIC TANK. The same meaning as found in §
52.01.
      SEWER USE ORDINANCE. This chapter.
      USER. Any person who enters the facility to discharge waste, or who
discharges or causes the discharge of waste into the facility or plant.
      WASTE. Domestic waste, septage or commercial/industrial waste.
   (C)   General requirements for use regulations and use.
      (1)   All users of the facility are required to submit, on an annual
basis, a registration for septage handlers/pumpers (or similar document) issued
by the County Health Department or other appropriate health department (i.e.,
Wayne County, Stark County, Coshocton County, Holmes County, Ashland County,
Carroll County or Guernsey County). Failure to produce the required
registration by July 30 each year will result in immediate termination of
disposal service at the facility.
      (2)   Each user must submit an application according to a form provided
by the village and pay a non-refundable application fee of $100 per year.
      (3)   Each user vehicle shall have the proper fittings to be compatible
with the influent line for the facility.
      (4)   Each user shall maintain the facility in a clean and orderly manner
during and after use.
      (5)   Each user must properly complete a waste manifest form and deposit
at the designated receptacle at the facility.
      (6)   Hours of operation shall be determined by the Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator. Plant personnel shall have the right to
refuse any load, in their absolute discretion.
      (7)   All persons using the facility are expected to be familiar with the
provisions of this chapter. All of the provisions of this chapter are
incorporated herein by reference.
      (8)   All persons are charged with liability under these regulations for
the acts and omissions of any person acting as their agent, assign, employee or
subcontractor whether or not that agent, assign, employee or subcontractor is
acting within the scope of their authority.
      (9)   Haulers shall be billed according to the capacity of their tank as
being full, regardless of the actual volume to be deposited.
   (D)   Restrictions on waste that will be accepted by the facility.
      (1)   Only domestic waste or septage will be accepted at the facility
except as specified in division (E) of this section.
      (2)   For purposes of this regulation, each person shall be bound by the
prohibited substances found in §
52.03 and the limited substances found in §
52.04.
      (3)   The village maintains the right to refuse waste at any time if, in
the opinion of the village, the waste will cause an upset or interference with
the plant operations, will cause a violation of the plant’s discharge permit or
is otherwise in violation of the rules and regulations of the facility or
plant.
      (4)   Village personnel have the right to sample each load of waste.
      (5)   The village shall control the acceptance of any waste that any
person desires to discharge to the facility pursuant to the criteria found in §
52.05, including, but not limited to, requiring payment by the user causing
said discharge to cover the added cost of handling and treatment of waste.
      (6)   Rates and lab fees will be charged to the user/person. All fees are
listed on the schedule of fees for discharge of domestic waste, septage and
commercial/industrial waste set forth below.
   (E)   Special procedure regarding commercial/industrial waste.
      (1)   All regulations in this document are applicable to commercial/
industrial waste.
      (2)   Commercial/industrial waste will be accepted under limited
circumstances as follows:
         (a)   Only industrial or commercial waste preapproved by the village
will be accepted;
         (b)   Only non-hazardous waste will be accepted; and
         (c)   All materials brought into the facility shall comply with all
federal and state regulations for trucked waste.
      (3)   All commercial/industrial loads coming to the facility are required
to pass a toxicity test prior to approval for discharge.
      (4)   Times for sampling and discharge must be arranged prior to bringing
the load to the plant site. The sample taken at this time must pass the
toxicity test in order to be accepted for discharge.
      (5)   The village may require the user/person to submit all MSDS sheets
for chemicals used at the commercial/industrial site of origin.
   (F)   Insurance requirements. Each person using the facility shall provide a
certificate of insurance for coverage as specified below naming the village an
additional insured. Such insurance shall contain a provision for 15 days’
notice to the village before certification of coverage cancellation.
      (1)   Worker’s compensation insurance: proof of insurance;
      (2)   Commercial general liability insurance:
         (a)   General aggregate limit: $1,000,000;
         (b)   Products - completed operations; aggregate limit: $1,000,000;
and
         (c)   Each occurrence limit: $1,000,000.
      (3)   Comprehensive automobile liability insurance; bodily injury and
property damage liability limit:
         (a)   Aggregate limit: $1,000,000; and
         (b)   Each occurrence limit: $1,000,000.
      (4)   User agrees to keep and hold the village harmless from and against
all costs, damages, claims or expenses it may sustain in its operation as a
waste hauler.
   (G)   Billing.
      (1)   The person using the facility will be invoiced as a customer to the
village sewer system. The payment and billing procedures of
Chapter 52 shall apply.
      (2)   (a)   Payments for invoices for sludge/septage received by the
village sewer system pursuant to the provisions hereof shall be due and owing
within 14 days from the date on the invoice sent for payment. Any invoice not
paid in full within 14 days from the date on the billing statement shall incur
a late penalty fee of 5% per month until paid in full, and upon assessment of
each 5% monthly late penalty fee, a new invoice shall be sent for payment under
the same terms set for payment of original invoices.
         (b)   Upon assessment of a 5% per month penalty fee, and the sending
of a new invoice for payment under the terms set forth for payment of original
invoices, including the 5% late penalty fee, if any invoice thereafter which
includes a late penalty fee is not paid within 30 days, then the village
reserves the right to notify haulers that they will stop accepting sludge from
said hauler until the bill is paid in full.
      (3)   The charge to the person using the facility will be determined
either according to the general categories listed below; however, at the
discretion of the village, the user may be charged according to the strength of
the waste received per this chapter.
 
Septic tanks $0.045/gallon
Sludge       $0.045/gallon
 
      (4)   For all other waste not specifically listed above that is not
subject to an extra strength surcharge, the basic rate is $0.045 per gallon.
Any extra strength surcharge due will be added to the basic rate.
   (H)   Schedule of fees for discharge of domestic waste, septage and
commercial/industrial waste.
Basic rate for sludge and septic tanks
   Septic tanks                 $0.045/gallon
   Sludge                       $0.045/gallon
Basic rate for other domestic waste and septage
   Per each gallon              $0.045*
Commercial/industrial rate
   Per each gallon              $0.045*
Sample analysis charges
   Ammonia                      Market price
   COD                          Market price
   Mercury                      Market price
   Metals (CD, CR, CU, Pb, NI, ZMarket price
   Nitrate/nitrite              Market price
   O&G                          Market price
   Organics                     Market price
   pH                           Market price
   Toxicity                     Market price
   TSS                          Market price
*   Plus applicable extra strength per this chapter
Other tests may be required as determined by the village and will be charged
at the market rate
 
(Ord. O-20-2007, passed 1-2-2008; Ord. O-02-2021, passed 2-3-2021)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter, including the
deposition of non-acceptable industrial waste into the sanitary sewer system,
or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this chapter, shall be guilty of
a minor misdemeanor and fined not more than $200. Each day a violation
continues or occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the monetary penalties stipulated in division (A) of
this section, the village reserves the right to shut off all water to the
building until such time that the violator complies with this chapter.
   (C)   The user shall be responsible for all penalties and costs associated
with infractions specified in §
52.02.
(Ord. O-20-2007, passed 1-2-2008)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
Section
   
53.01   Definitions   
   
53.02   Container and placement requirements
   
53.03   Frequency; rates; exceptions
   
53.04   Billing; additional rules
   
53.05   Exemptions
   
53.06   Licensing of commercial haulers
   
53.07   Reduction in rates: residential
   
53.08   Prohibitions
   
53.09   Composting service
   
53.10   Recycling program
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   GARBAGE. All refuse and animal and vegetable matter which has been used for
food for human, all refuse and animal and vegetable matter that was intended to
be so used, and includes condemned foods. This meaning shall include excess
fruit from trees on residential property, but not from trees on farms or
orchards.
   HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH. Includes the pickup from the curb line only of
residential property household goods, household refuse, tin cans, bottles,
crockery, broken glass, rags, grass clippings and other similar debris, hedge
cuttings and shrubbery trimmings bundled, boxed or otherwise contained, furnace
pipe, incinerator refuse and ashes of all kinds and descriptions, wood not over
36 inches in length, all rubbish, trash, debris, waste, litter, scrap, packing,
excelsior, straw, metal, cooking utensils, toys, porcelain, carpeting, leather,
rubber, shoes, clothing, cardboard and trimmings. Excluded from HOUSEHOLD
RUBBISH will be garbage, broken concrete and other refuse from repairs,
alterations and new construction of buildings and sidewalks, tree limbs and
trunks over 36 inches in length and debris from commercial or industrial
establishments.
   RUBBISH. All rags, broken glass, crockery, bottles, tin cans, waste basket
debris, grass cuttings and small household refuse placed in approved
containers, generally including incinerator ashes and refuse from paper
burners, ashes from heating plants and coal stoves.
(Ord. O-22-83, passed 8-16-1983)
§ 53.02 CONTAINER AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each dwelling, commercial and institutional occupant shall place his
or her garbage and refuse at the curb line or alley line and shall provide for
itself and at its own expense, one or more of the following containers:
      (1)   Refuse containers may be metal, rubber or plastic, not to exceed 30
gallons of capacity. Disposable polyethylene bags designed to be used as
containers may be used and are to be sealed or closed at the top. Metal tubs or
disposable boxes may be used as containers for ashes, yard clippings or paper.
Containers shall be maintained in good condition and kept in as sanitary
condition as is compatible with their intended use;
      (2)   Garbage containers may be metal, rubber, plastic and watertight
containers not to exceed 30 gallons of capacity. Garbage placed in these
containers shall be drained and wrapped tightly in newspaper, plastic bags or
treated waterproof bags; and/or
      (3)   Garbage and rubbish may be mixed in any of the above named
containers.
   (B)   Additional items not fitting within the containers named above shall
be collected by the garbage and refuse service as follows: bundles of brush,
hedge and tree trimmings, cardboard, paper, wood and the like may be placed as
designated herein for collection. Bundles shall be securely tied and shall not
exceed four feet in length, two feet in diameter, nor weigh more than 50
pounds.
   (C)   Each container placed at the curb or alley as designated above and
each other item set out for collection shall be placed at such location no
earlier than 24 hours prior to the regular date for collection in the locality
as established by the Mayor. The containers shall be removed from the required
location within 24 hours after the collection has taken place.
   (D)   No person shall deposit garbage or refuse in violation of this section
or otherwise fail to comply with the requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. O-22-83, passed 8-16-1983) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.03 FREQUENCY; RATES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All individual residential units and dwellings shall receive garbage
and refuse service at a frequency of once per week with a maximum of one 65-
gallon cart to be permitted for any one unit. A residential unit is considered
to be made up of one family, and each apartment in a multiple-family dwelling
or complex shall be considered and billed as a separate unit. Neighbors shall
not use any other containers except their own.
   (B)   Each commercial or business operation, or institutional establishment
shall receive garbage and refuse service at a frequency of two times per week
for the same size and number of containers, and under the same restrictions, as
provided in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   All individual residential units and dwellings, as well as commercial
and business operations, or institutional establishments, shall receive weekly
curbside recycling collection at a frequency of once per week, with a 65-gallon
cart being provided to said residential unit and dwelling, commercial or
business operation, or institutional establishment for said curbside recycling
collection program.
   (D)    Each individual residential unit or dwelling, as well as each
commercial or business operation or institutional establishment shall be
charged a rate of $16.50 per month for the garbage and refuse service, together
with the recycling collection program service.
   (E)   Industrial wastes shall not be collected pursuant to this chapter and
any such waste must be removed either by the making of special arrangements
with the village contract hauler or by private contract arranged with a private
licensed hauler by the owner of the dwelling, commercial enterprise or
institution.
   (F) All dwelling, commercial and institutional accounts shall be permitted
to contract with a commercial licensed refuse collector in lieu of using the
service provided by the village; provided such dwelling, commercial or
institutional occupant complies with §
53.05.
   (G)   The occupancy of any residence, apartment unit, commercial building or
institution shall be prima facie evidence that garbage or rubbish is being
produced and accumulated on such premises, and that the applicable service
charges for the collection and disposal thereof, are due the village.
   (H)   All dwellings, commercial enterprises or institutions shall use the
collection service provided by the village unless exempted pursuant to the
provisions set forth in §
53.05.
(Ord. O-22-83, passed 8-16-1983; Ord. O-29-2021, passed - -2021; Ord. O-13-
2024, passed 6-18-2024)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 BILLING; ADDITIONAL RULES.
   (A)   The above stated charges for garbage and refuse service shall be
billed together with the charges for water and sewer charges by the Village
Council to each dwelling, commercial and institutional establishment receiving
such service. The moneys received from such collection shall be deposited in
the General Fund and appropriated therefrom for the purposes of garbage and
refuse collection service. Any surplus thereafter may be used for other village
services.
   (B)   The collection of such rates shall be made by the Village Council at
the municipal building or by agents heretofore designated by the Council, and
shall be subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the Council for
the collection of water and sewer charges as the same are set forth in Chapter
51, or as the same may be amended from time to time by said Board.
   (C)   The Village Council may promulgate such additional rules and
regulations regarding the collection and payment of such accounts as may be
necessary for the adequate supervision of the collections.
(Ord. O-22-83, passed 8-16-1983) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation may refuse receipt of the
collection service; provided they have made alternate provision for the
adequate disposal of garbage and refuse. Any person, firm, partnership or
corporation desiring not to receive collection service from the village shall
file with the Mayor a sworn affidavit on a form to be provided by the Mayor.
Such affidavit shall be notarized and shall include the following information:
      (1)   The location at which service is not desired;
      (2)   The alternate method to be used for the disposal of garbage and
refuse; and
      (3)   The name of any commercial hauler with whom the affiant has
contracted for service.
   (B)   Failure to file the aforementioned affidavit and the failure to make
alternate provisions for the adequate disposal of garbage and refuse, shall
result in a charge for trash collection to be assessed against such person,
firm, partnership or corporation without regard to whether the service of the
village is used.
(Ord. O-22-83, passed 8-16-1983)
§ 53.06 LICENSING OF COMMERCIAL HAULERS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of hauling rubbish, refuse or
garbage within the corporation limits without first obtaining an annual license
therefore from the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor shall investigate each application to determine the
suitability of such applicant to render the services of a hauler. Applicants
shall annually furnish and tile with the Mayor the following:
      (1)   The name of each person in the employ of the hauler;
      (2)   The age and type of equipment to be used or the collection process;
      (3)   A statement of the amount of liability insurance coverage on the
vehicles, equipment and business, and the name of the carrier of such policies;
      (4)   The proposed place at which the refuse will be disposed; and
      (5)   A copy of the solid waste hauler’s permit issued by the County
Department of Health.
   (C)   If the Mayor denies a license to any applicant, such applicant may
appeal the denial to Council by filing with the office of the Mayor a notice of
appeal within 30 days of the denial by the Mayor. The Mayor shall within five
days thereafter refer such appeal to the Clerk of Council and Council shall
hear and rule on such appeal at its next regular session after receipt thereof.
   (D)   An annual fee of $25 shall be charged by the Mayor for the issuance of
such license.
(Ord. O-22-83, passed 8-16-1983) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 REDUCTION IN RATES: RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   The occupant of any residence in need of receiving the garbage and
rubbish collection service of the village, but, who because of limited or fixed
income, is unable to pay the regular monthly charge set forth in this chapter,
may once annually apply to the Village Council for a reduction, but not an
elimination of such rate.
   (B)   All applications shall be considered on an annual basis and must be
filed or renewed annually.
(Ord. O-22-83, passed 8-16-1983) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall, with intent to avoid the payment
of the garbage disposal fees set out in this chapter, place garbage or trash in
a receptacle for garbage or trash intended for the use of another.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall, with intent to assist a
nonsubscriber in avoiding payment of a garbage disposal fee set forth in this
chapter, set out or permit such nonsubscriber from setting out for collection,
garbage or rubbish that originated from such nonsubscriber’s premises.
   (C)   No person shall, with intent to avoid payment of the garbage disposal
fees set out in this chapter, materially misrepresent any matter to the Mayor,
Clerk or Village Council.
(Ord. O-22-83, passed 8-16-1983) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 COMPOSTING SERVICE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a compost collection service for residents
and property owners of the village, said compost to be collected at a location
within the village established by the Mayor, after consultation with the Water
and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator.
   (B)   This composting service is intended to be utilized as a benefit for
property owners and residents of the village to dispose of material suitable
for composting, and is not intended to be utilized by commercial operations or
businesses to dispose of their commercial or business compostable waste.
   (C)   Each individual property, residential unit or dwelling shall be
charged a monthly compost fee of $1 per month for this compost service, the
same to be effective September 1, 2012 and continuing monthly thereafter.
   (D)   The above stated charges for composting service shall be billed
together with prior charges for water, sewer and trash pickup by the village.
The monies received from such composting service shall be deposited in the
General Fund and appropriated therefrom for the purpose of paying for
additional expenses related to the compost service by employees of the village
utilizing equipment owned and operated by the village. Any surplus monies
thereafter may be used for other village services.
   (E)   Any individual not a property owner or resident of the village who
disposes of or attempts to dispose of any materials at the compost collection
site shall be deemed to have committed a criminal offense.
   (F)   Any individual, whether or not a property owner or resident of the
village, who disposes of or attempts to dispose of materials that are not
suitable for composting at the composting service site established by the
village shall also be deemed to have committed a criminal offense.
   (G)   Any commercial operation or business which attempts to utilize the
compost collection service of the village for disposal of their commercial or
business compostable waste shall also be deemed to have committed a criminal
offense for violation of this section.
   (H)   The composting service of the village shall be available to residents
and property owners of Franklin Township, Tuscarawas County, Ohio, in
accordance with the terms and conditions described herein.
   (I)   An annual fee of $15 per year shall be charged to residents and
property owners of Franklin Township, Tuscarawas County, Ohio, for the use of
the village composting service, and upon payment of said fee to the office of
the Village Fiscal Officer, the resident and property owner of Franklin
Township, Tuscarawas County, Ohio, paying said fee shall receive a sticker for
the calendar year for which access to the composting service is sought.
   (J)   The $15 fee for the use of the village composting service by residents
and property owners of Franklin Township, Tuscarawas County, Ohio, shall be
renewed annually, at the same rate or such other rate as subsequently
determined by the Village Council.
   (K)   Any resident and property owner of Franklin Township, Tuscarawas
County, Ohio, who wishes to pay the $15 registration fee for the use of the
village composting service shall be entitled, at no additional charge, to use
the village composting service.
(Ord. O-11-2012, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. O-15-2012, passed 11-6-2012; Ord. O-20-
2013, passed 9-3-2013) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 RECYCLING PROGRAM.
   (A)   The curbside recycling program previously established by the village
shall continue, to include a fall and spring one-day bulk collection item.
   (B)   All residents of the village currently receiving trash and refuse
bills shall be charged an additional $1 per month to assist the village in off-
setting the additional cost for the curbside recycling program.
(Ord. O-10-2010, passed 9- -2010)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
53.08 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (B)   Whoever violates any other provision of this chapter is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
   (E)   Any person violating §
53.09 shall be designated a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine not to exceed
$500 for each such offense.
(Ord. O-22-83, passed 8-16-1983; Ord. O-15-2012, passed 11-6-2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
73.   MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
      
74.   EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
      
75.   BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
      
76.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
77.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
78.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Compliance with order of police officer
   
70.03   Emergency vehicles to proceed cautiously past red or stop signal
   
70.04   Exceptions generally; emergency, public safety and coroner vehicles
exempt
   
70.05   Persons riding or driving animals upon roadways
   
70.06   Prohibitions against pedestrians and slow-moving vehicles on freeways
   
70.07   Use of private property for vehicular travel
   
70.08   Names of persons damaging real property by operation of vehicle to be
provided to owner
   
70.09   Limited access highways; barriers along; vehicles to enter and leave at
designated intersections
   
70.10   Through highways
   
70.11   Officer may remove ignition key
   
70.12   Removal of vehicles after accidents
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.30   Obeying traffic-control devices
   
70.31   Signal lights
   
70.32   Signals over reversible lanes
   
70.33   Ambiguous or non-working traffic signals
   
70.34   Pedestrian-control signals
   
70.35   Unauthorized signs and signals prohibited
   
70.36   Alteration, defacement, or removal prohibited
   
70.37   Unauthorized possession or sale of devices
   
70.38   Signal preemption devices; prohibitions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unauthorized use of a motor vehicle, see §
131.09
Statutory reference:
   Local traffic regulations, scope and authority, see R.C. § 4511.07
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Traffic law photo-monitoring devices, state regulations, see R.C. §§
4511.092 et seq.
   Uniform application and precedence of state traffic laws, see R.C. § 4511.06
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided, the definitions set forth in R.C. § 4501.01
shall apply to this Title and the penal laws of the municipality. For the
purpose of this Title, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. Every self-propelled vehicle designed or used for
drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery, but having no provision for
carrying loads independently of such other vehicles, and used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   ALLEY. A street or highway intended to provide access to the rear or side of
lots or buildings in urban districts, and not intended for the purpose of
through vehicular traffic, and any street or highway that has been declared an
“alley” by the Legislative Authority of the municipality in which the street or
highway is located.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Any United States or state numbered route, controlled-
access highway, or other major radial or circumferential street or highway
designated by local authorities within their respective jurisdictions as part
of a major arterial system of streets or highways.
   BEACON. A highway traffic signal with one or more signal sections that
operate in a flashing mode.
   BICYCLE. Every device, other than a device that is designed solely for use
as a play vehicle by a child, that is propelled solely by human power upon
which a person may ride, and that has two or more wheels, any of which is more
than 14 inches in diameter.
   BUS. Every motor vehicle designed for carrying more than nine passengers,
and used for the transportation of persons other than in a ridesharing
arrangement, and every motor vehicle, automobile for hire, or funeral car,
other than a taxicab or motor vehicle used in a ridesharing arrangement,
designed and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory fronting upon a street or highway,
including the street or highway, between successive intersections within the
municipality, where 50% or more of the frontage between successive
intersections is occupied by buildings in use for business, or within or
outside the municipality where 50% or more of the frontage for a distance of
300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in use for business, and the
character of the territory is indicated by official traffic-control devices.
   CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINE. A motor vehicle that is designed to carry nine or
fewer passengers and is operated for hire pursuant to a prearranged contract
for the transportation of passengers on public roads and highways along a route
under the control of the person hiring the vehicle and not over a defined and
regular route. “Prearranged contract” means an agreement, made in advance of
boarding, to provide transportation from a specific location in an chauffeured
limousine. The term does not include any vehicle that is used exclusively in
the business of funeral directing. (R.C. § 4501.01(LL))
   CHILD CARE CENTER. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. § 5104.01.
   COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle having motive power designed or used
for drawing other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry any load
thereon, or designed or used for drawing other vehicles while carrying a
portion of the other vehicles, or the load thereon, or both.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every street or highway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right or
access to or from the same except at certain points only and in a manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over the street or
highway.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at intersections ordinarily included within
the real or projected prolongation of property lines and curb lines or, in the
absence of curbs, the edges of the traversable roadway;
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere,
distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the
surface;
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, there
shall not be a crosswalk where the Legislative Authority has placed signs
indicating no crossing.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
   ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a “class 1 electric bicycle”, a “class 2 electric
bicycle”, or a “class 3 electric bicycle” as defined below.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles per hour.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that may
provide assistance regardless of whether the rider is pedaling and is not
capable of providing assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 20 miles
per hour.
      (3)   CLASS 3 ELECTRIC BICYCLE. Means a bicycle that is equipped with
fully operable pedals and an electric motor of less than 750 watts that
provides assistance only when the rider is pedaling and ceases to provide
assistance when the bicycle reaches the speed of 28 miles per hour.
   EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Emergency vehicles of municipal, township or county
departments or public utility corporations, when identified as such as required
by law, the Director of Public Safety, or local authorities, and motor vehicles
when commandeered by a police officer.
   EXPLOSIVES. Any chemical compound or mechanical mixture that is intended for
the purpose of producing an explosion that contains any oxidizing and
combustible units or other ingredients in such proportions, quantities, or
packing that an ignition by fire, by friction, by concussion, by percussion, or
by a detonator of any part of the compound or mixture may cause a sudden
generation of highly heated gases, such that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effects on contiguous objects, or of
destroying life or limb. Manufactured articles shall not be held to be
explosives when the individual units contain explosives in limited quantities
of such nature or in such packing that it is impossible to procure a
simultaneous or a destructive explosion of the units, to the injury of life,
limb, or property by fire, friction, concussion, percussion, or by a detonator,
such as fixed ammunition for small arms, firecrackers, or safety fuse matches.
   EXPRESSWAY. A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access with an excess of 50% of all crossroads separated in
grade.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID. Any liquid which has a flash point of 70°F or less, as
determined by a tagliabue or equivalent closed cup test device.
   FREEWAY. A divided multi-lane highway for through traffic with crossroads
separated in grade and with full control of access.
   FUNERAL ESCORT VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle, including a funeral hearse, while
used to facilitate the movement of a funeral procession.
   GROSS WEIGHT. The weight of a vehicle plus the weight of any load thereon.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to
the use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle used in snow and ice removal or road
surface maintenance, including a snow plow, traffic line striper, road sweeper,
mowing machine, asphalt distributing vehicle, or other such vehicle designed
for use in specific highway maintenance activities.
   HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SIGNAL. A power-operated traffic control device by which
traffic is warned or directed to take some specific action. The term does not
include a power-operated sign, steadily illuminated pavement marker, warning
light, or steady burning electric lamp.
   HYBRID BEACON. A type of beacon that is intentionally placed in a dark mode
between periods of operation where no indications are displayed and, when in
operation, displays both steady and flashing traffic control signal
indications.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
two highways that join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways that join at
any other angle might come into conflict. The junction of an alley or driveway
with a roadway or highway does not constitute an intersection unless the
roadway or highway at the junction is controlled by a traffic control device.
      (2)   If a highway includes two roadways that are 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway constitutes a separate intersection. If both intersecting highways
include two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of any two
roadways of such highways constitutes a separate intersection.
      (3)   At a location controlled by a traffic control signal, regardless of
the distance between the separate intersections as described in division (2) of
this definition:
         (a)   If a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk has not been designated
on the roadway within the median between the separate intersections, the two
intersections and the roadway and median constitute one intersection.
         (b)   Where a stop line, yield line, or crosswalk line is designated
on the roadway on the intersection approach, the area within the crosswalk and
any area beyond the designated stop line or yield line constitute part of the
intersection.
         (c)   Where a crosswalk is designated on a roadway on the departure
from the intersection, the intersection includes the area that extends to the
far side of the crosswalk.
   LANED HIGHWAY. A highway the roadway of which is divided into two or more
clearly marked lanes for vehicular traffic.
   LOCAL AUTHORITIES. Every county, municipal, and other local board or body
having authority to adopt police regulations under the Constitution and laws of
this state.
   LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICE. Means a device weighing less than 100 pounds
that has handlebars, is propelled by an electric motor or human power, and has
an attainable speed on a paved level surface of not more than 20 miles per hour
when propelled by the electric motor.
   MEDIAN. The area between two roadways of a divided highway, measured from
edge of traveled way to edge of traveled way, but excluding turn lanes. The
width of a median may be different between intersections, between interchanges,
and at opposite approaches of the same intersection.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires, except motorized
bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines, power shovels,
power cranes and other equipment used in construction work, and not designed
for or employed in general highway transportation, hole-digging machinery,
well-drilling machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery, and trailers
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle, other than a tractor, having a seat or
saddle for the use of the operator and designed to travel on not more than
three wheels in contact with the ground, including but not limited to motor
vehicles known as “motor-driven cycle”, “motor scooter”, “autocycle”, “cab-
enclosed motorcycle”, or “motorcycle” without regard to weight or brake
horsepower.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE or MOPED. Any vehicle having either two tandem wheels or
one wheel in the front and two wheels in the rear, that may be pedaled, and
that is equipped with a helper motor of not more than 50 cubic centimeters
piston displacement that produces not more than one brake horsepower and is
capable of propelling the vehicle at a speed of not greater than 20 miles per
hour on a level surface. The terms do not include an electric bicycle.
   MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIR. Any self-propelled vehicle designed for, and used by,
a person with a disability and that is incapable of a speed in excess of eight
miles per hour.
   MULTI-WHEEL AGRICULTURAL TRACTOR. A type of agricultural tractor that has
two or more wheels or tires on each side of one axle at the rear of the
tractor, is designed or used for drawing other vehicles or wheeled machinery,
has no provision for carrying loads independently of the drawn vehicles or
machinery, and is used principally for agricultural purposes.
   NATURAL RESOURCES OFFICER. An officer appointed pursuant to R.C. § 1501.24.
   OPERATE. To cause or have caused movement of a vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   PARKED or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle upon a street, road, alley,
highway or public ground, whether accompanied or unaccompanied by a driver, but
does not include the temporary standing of a vehicle for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or loading merchandise or passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any natural person afoot. The term includes a personal delivery
device as defined in R.C. § 4511.513 unless the context clearly suggests
otherwise.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   POLE TRAILER. Every trailer or semitrailer attached to the towing vehicle by
means of a reach, pole, or by being boomed or otherwise secured to the towing
vehicle, and ordinarily used for transporting long or irregular shaped loads
such as poles, pipes, or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining
themselves as beams between the supporting connections.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic, or
to make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
   PREDICATE MOTOR VEHICLE OR TRAFFIC OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12, 4511.132,
4511.16, 4511.20, 4511.201, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32,
4511.33, 4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40,
4511.41, 4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451,
4511.452, 4511.46, 4511.47, 4511.48, 4511.481, 4511.49, 4511.50, 4511.511,
4511.53, 4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.56, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60,
4511.61, 4511.64, 4511.66, 4511.661, 4511.68, 4511.70, 4511.701, 4511.71,
4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, 4511.73, 4511.763, 4511.771, 4511.78, or
4511.84;
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.17(A)(2), 4511.51(A) through (D), or
4511.74(A);
      (3)   A violation of any provision of R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.76 for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section that contains the
provision violated;
      (4)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.214;
      (5)   A violation of a municipal ordinance that is substantially
equivalent to any section or provision set forth or described in division (1),
(2), (3), or (4) of this definition.
   PRIVATE ROAD OPEN TO PUBLIC TRAVEL. A private toll road or road, including
any adjacent sidewalks that generally run parallel to the road, within a
shopping center, airport, sports arena, or other similar business or recreation
facility that is privately owned but where the public is allowed to travel
without access restrictions. The term includes a gated toll road but does not
include a road within a private gated property where access is restricted at
all times, a parking area, a driving aisle within a parking area, or a private
grade crossing.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership used for
vehicular travel by the owner, and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Ambulances, including private ambulance companies under contract to
a municipality, township, or county, and private ambulances and nontransport
vehicles bearing license plates issued under R.C. § 4503.49;
      (2)   Motor vehicles used by public law enforcement officers or other
persons sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle when properly identified as required by the
Director of Public Safety, when used in response to fire emergency calls or to
provide emergency medical service to ill or injured persons, and when operated
by a duly qualified person who is a member of a volunteer rescue service or a
volunteer fire department, and who is on duty pursuant to the rules or
directives of that service. The State Fire Marshal shall be designated by the
Director of Public Safety as the certifying agency for all public safety
vehicles described herein;
      (4)   Vehicles used by fire departments, including motor vehicles when
used by volunteer firefighters responding to emergency calls in the fire
department service when identified as required by the Director of Public
Safety;
      (5)   Any vehicle used to transport or provide emergency medical service
to an ill or injured person, when certified as a public safety vehicle, shall
be considered such a vehicle when transporting an ill or injured person to a
hospital, regardless of whether such vehicle has already passed a hospital;
      (6)   Vehicles used by the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit for the
enforcement of orders and rules of the Public Utilities Commission as specified
in R.C. § 5503.34.
   RAILROAD. A carrier of persons or property operating upon rails placed
principally on a private right-of-way.
   RAILROAD SIGN OR SIGNAL. Any sign, signal, or device erected by authority of
a public body or official or by a railroad, and intended to give notice of the
presence of railroad tracks or the approach of a railroad train.
   RAILROAD TRAIN. A steam engine or an electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated by a railroad.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory, not comprising a business district,
fronting on a street or highway, including the street or highway, where, for a
distance of 300 feet or more, the frontage is improved with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
   RIDESHARING ARRANGEMENT. Includes the transportation of persons in a motor
vehicle where the transportation is incidental to another purpose of a
volunteer driver, and includes arrangements known as carpools, vanpools, and
buspools.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Either of the following, as the context requires:
      (1)   The right of a vehicle or pedestrian to proceed uninterruptedly in
a lawful manner in the direction in which it, he or she is moving, in
preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching from a different
direction into its, his or her path;
      (2)   A general term denoting land, property, or the interest therein,
usually in the configuration of a strip, acquired for or devoted to
transportation purposes. When used in this context, “right-of-way” includes the
roadway, shoulders or berm, ditch, and slopes extending to the right-of-way
limits under the control of the state or local authority.
   ROAD SERVICE VEHICLE. Means wreckers, utility repair vehicles, and state,
county, and municipal service vehicles equipped with visual signals by means of
flashing, rotating, or oscillating lights.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder. If a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term means any roadway separately, but not all the
roadways collectively.
   RURAL MAIL DELIVERY VEHICLE. Every vehicle used to deliver United States
mail on a rural mail delivery route.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians, and protected or marked or indicated by adequate
signs so as to be plainly visible at all times.
   SCHOOL BUS. Every bus designed for carrying more than nine passengers which
is owned by a public, private, or governmental agency or institution of
learning, and operated for the transportation of children to or from a school
session or a school function, or owned by a private person and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from a school session or
a school function; provided the term does not include a bus operated by a
municipally owned transportation system, a mass transit company operating
exclusively within the territorial limits of a municipality, or within such
limits and the territorial limits of municipalities immediately contiguous to
the municipality, nor a common passenger carrier certified by the Public
Utilities Commission unless the bus is devoted exclusively to the
transportation of children to and from a school session or a school function,
and the term does not include a van or bus used by a licensed child care center
or type A family child care home to transport children from the child care
center or type A family child care home to a school if the van or bus does not
have more than 15 children in the van or bus at any time.
   SEMITRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
with another and separate motor vehicle so that in operation a part of its own
weight or that of its load, or both, rests upon and is carried by another
vehicle.
   SHARED-USE PATH. A bikeway outside the traveled way and physically separated
from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier and either within
the highway right-of-way or within an independent alignment. A shared-use path
also may be used by pedestrians, including skaters, joggers, users of manual
and motorized wheelchairs, and other authorized motorized and non-motorized
users. A shared-use path does not include any trail that is intended to be used
primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar uses,
or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically been
reserved for non-motorized use.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STATE HIGHWAY. A highway under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Transportation, outside the limits of municipalities, provided that the
authority conferred upon the Director of Transportation in R.C. § 5511.01 to
erect state highway route markers and signs directing traffic shall not be
modified by R.C. §§ 4511.01 through 4511.79 and 4511.99.
   STATE ROUTE. Every highway which is designated with an official state route
number and so marked.
   STOP. When required, means a complete cessation of movement.
   STOP INTERSECTION. Any intersection at one or more entrances of which stop
signs are erected.
   STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting of a vehicle, even momentarily,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way open to the
use of the public as a thoroughfare for purposes of vehicular travel.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway as provided in R.C. § 4511.65, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   THRUWAY. A through highway whose entire roadway is reserved for through
traffic and on which roadway parking is prohibited.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other devices, either singly or together, while using for purposes of travel
any highway or private road open to public travel.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. A flagger, sign, signal, marking, or other device
used to regulate, warn, or guide traffic, placed on, over, or adjacent to a
street, highway, private road open to public travel, pedestrian facility, or
shared-use path by authority of a public agency or official having
jurisdiction, or, in the case of a private road open to public travel, by
authority of the private owner or private official having jurisdiction.
   TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL. Any highway traffic signal by which traffic is
alternately directed to stop and permitted to proceed.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle designed or used for carrying persons or property
wholly on its own structure, and for being drawn by a motor vehicle, including
any vehicle when formed by or operated as a combination of a semitrailer and a
vehicle of the dolly type, such as that commonly known as a trailer dolly, a
vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production
materials between a local place of storage or supply and the farm when drawn or
towed on a street or highway at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour and a
vehicle designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of
storage and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a
street or highway for a distance of more than ten miles or at a speed of more
than 25 miles per hour.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers, designed and
used to carry property.
   TYPE A FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. Has the same meaning as set forth in R.C. §
5104.01.
   URBAN DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to and including any street or
highway which is built up with structures devoted to business, industry, or
dwelling houses situated at intervals of less than 100 feet for a distance of
one-quarter of a mile or more, and the character of the territory is indicated
by official traffic-control devices.
   VEHICLE. Every device, including a motorized bicycle and an electric
bicycle, in, upon, or by which any person or property may be transported or
drawn upon a highway, except that the term does not include any motorized
wheelchair, any electric personal assistive mobility device, any low-speed
micromobility device, any personal delivery device as defined in R.C. §
4511.513, any device that is moved by power collected from overhead electric
trolley wires or that is used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks, or
any device, other than a bicycle, that is moved by human power.
   WASTE COLLECTION VEHICLE. A vehicle used in the collection of garbage,
refuse, trash, or recyclable materials.
   WILDLIFE OFFICER. An officer designated pursuant to R.C. § 1531.13.
(R.C. § 4511.01)
§ 70.02 COMPLIANCE WITH ORDER OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall fail to comply with any lawful order or direction of
any police officer invested with authority to direct, control, or regulate
traffic.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle so as willfully to elude or
flee a police officer after receiving a visible or audible signal from a police
officer to bring the person’s motor vehicle to a stop.
   (C)   (1)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to comply
with an order or signal of a police officer.
      (2)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (C)(4) and (C)(5) of this section,
a violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and shall
be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier of fact
finds by proof beyond a reasonable doubt that in committing the offense, the
offender was fleeing immediately after the commission of a felony.
      (5)   (a)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony and
shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the jury or judge as trier
of fact finds any of the following by proof beyond a reasonable doubt:
            1.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender was a
proximate cause of serious physical harm to persons or property.
            2.   The operation of the motor vehicle by the offender caused a
substantial risk of serious physical harm to persons or property.
         (b)   If a police officer pursues an offender who is violating
division (B) of this section and division (C)(5)(a) of this section applies,
the sentencing court, in determining the seriousness of an offender’s conduct
for purposes of sentencing the offender for a violation of division (B) of this
section, shall consider, along with the factors set forth in R.C. §§ 2929.12
and 2929.13 that are required to be considered, all of the following:
            1.   The duration of the pursuit;
            2.   The distance of the pursuit;
            3.   The rate of speed at which the offender operated the motor
vehicle during the pursuit;
            4.   Whether the offender failed to stop for traffic lights or stop
signs during the pursuit;
            5.   The number of traffic lights or stop signs for which the
offender failed to stop during the pursuit;
            6.   Whether the offender operated the motor vehicle during the
pursuit without lighted lights during a time when lighted lights are required;
            7.   Whether the offender committed a moving violation during the
pursuit;
            8.   The number of moving violations the offender committed during
the pursuit;
            9.   Any other relevant factors indicating that the offender’s
conduct is more serious than conduct normally constituting the offense.
   (D)    In addition to any other sanction imposed for a violation of division
(A) of this section, the court shall impose a class five suspension from the
range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). If the offender previously has been
found guilty of an offense under this section or under R.C. § 2921.331 or any
other substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, in addition to any other
sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class one suspension
as described in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(1). The court may grant limited driving
privileges to the offender on a suspension imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of this section as set forth in R.C. § 4510.021. No judge shall suspend any
portion of the suspension under a class one suspension of an offender's
license, permit, or privilege required by this division.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      MOVING VIOLATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2743.70.
      POLICE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F))
Cross-reference:
   Resisting arrest, see §
136.08
§ 70.03 EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO PROCEED CAUTIOUSLY PAST RED OR STOP SIGNAL.
   (A)   The driver of any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, upon approaching a red or stop signal or any
stop sign, shall slow down as necessary for safety to traffic, but may proceed
cautiously past the red or stop sign or signal with due regard for the safety
of all persons using the street or highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.03)
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS GENERALLY; EMERGENCY, PUBLIC SAFETY AND CORONER VEHICLES
EXEMPT.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code, except for §§
73.01 and
73.02, do not apply to persons, teams, motor vehicles, and other equipment
while actually engaged in work upon the surface of a highway within an area
designated by traffic-control devices, but apply to those persons and vehicles
when traveling to or from such work.
   (B)   The driver of a highway maintenance vehicle owned by this state or any
political subdivision of this state, while the driver is engaged in the
performance of official duties upon a street or highway, provided the highway
maintenance vehicle is equipped with flashing lights and such other markings as
are required by law and such lights are in operation when the driver and
vehicle are so engaged, shall be exempt from criminal prosecution for
violations of R.C. §§ 4511.22, 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30,
4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.66, and 4513.02, and R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not exempt a driver of a highway maintenance
vehicle from civil liability arising from a violation of R.C. § 4511.22,
4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.33, 4511.35,
4511.66, or 4513.02 or R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   This section does not exempt a driver of a vehicle who is not a
state employee and who is engaged in the transport of highway maintenance
equipment from criminal liability for a violation of R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   As used in this section, ENGAGED IN THE PERFORMANCE OF OFFICIAL DUTIES
includes driving a highway maintenance vehicle to and from the manufacturer or
vehicle maintenance provider and transporting a highway maintenance vehicle,
equipment, or materials to and from a work location.
(R.C. § 4511.04)
   (E)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.12, 4511.13, 4511.131, 4511.132,
4511.14, 4511.202, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25, 4511.26,
4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.34,
4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41, 4511.42,
4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.432, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59,
4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.62, 4511.66, 4511.68, 4511.681, and 4511.69, and any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle if the emergency vehicle or public
safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle and if the driver of the vehicles is giving an audible signal by siren,
exhaust whistle, or bell. This section does not relieve the driver of an
emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.041)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
   (F)   The provisions of R.C. §§ 4511.25, 4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29,
4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, and
4511.66, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, do not apply to
a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle
in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. This division does not relieve a coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.042)
§ 70.05 PERSONS RIDING OR DRIVING ANIMALS UPON ROADWAYS.
   Every person riding, driving, or leading an animal upon a roadway is subject
to the provisions of this traffic code, applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except those provisions of this traffic code which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(R.C. § 4511.05)
§ 70.06 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST PEDESTRIANS AND SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES ON FREEWAYS.
   (A)   No person, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, shall:
      (1)   As a pedestrian, occupy any space within the limits of the right-
of-way of a freeway, except: in a rest area; on a facility that is separated
from the roadway and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately
marked for pedestrian use; in the performance of public works or official
duties; as a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown of a
motor vehicle; or to obtain assistance;
      (2)   Occupy any space within the limits of the right-of-way of a
freeway, with: an animal-drawn vehicle; a ridden or led animal; herded animals;
a pushcart; a bicycle, except on a facility that is separated from the roadway
and shoulders of the freeway and is designed and appropriately marked for
bicycle use; an electric bicycle; a bicycle with motor attached; a motor-driven
cycle with a motor which produces not to exceed five brake horsepower; an
agricultural tractor; farm machinery; except in the performance of public works
or official duties.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.051)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of a freeway, see R.C. § 4511.011
§ 70.07 USE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY FOR VEHICULAR TRAVEL.
   The provisions of this traffic code do not prevent the owner of real
property, used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel by permission of
the owner and not as a matter of right, from prohibiting such use or from
requiring additional conditions to those specified in this traffic code, or
otherwise regulating such use as may seem best to the owner.
(R.C. § 4511.08)
§ 70.08 NAMES OF PERSONS DAMAGING REAL PROPERTY BY OPERATION OF VEHICLE TO BE
PROVIDED TO OWNER.
   (A)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 4501.01.
   (B)   If damage is caused to real property by the operation of a motor
vehicle in, or during the, violation of any section of the Ohio Revised Code or
of any municipal ordinance, the law enforcement agency that investigates the
case, upon request of the real property owner, shall provide the owner with the
names of the persons who are charged with the commission of the offense. If a
request for the names is made, the agency shall provide the names as soon as
possible after the persons are charged with the offense.
   (C)   The personnel of law enforcement agencies who act pursuant to division
(B) of this section in good faith are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from their actions taken pursuant to that division. Political
subdivisions and the state are not liable in damages in a civil action
allegedly arising from the actions of personnel of their law enforcement
agencies if the personnel have immunity under this division.
(R.C. § 2935.28)
§ 70.09 LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS; BARRIERS ALONG; VEHICLES TO ENTER AND LEAVE AT
DESIGNATED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall cut, injure, remove, or destroy
any fence or other barrier designed and erected to prevent traffic from
entering or leaving a limited access highway without the permission of the
Director of Transportation, except in a case of emergency where life or
property is in danger. No person, firm or corporation shall cause a vehicle of
any character to enter or leave a limited access highway at any point other
than intersections designated by the Director for such purposes, except in a
case of emergency where life or property is in danger.
(R.C. § 3767.201)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3767.99(D))
§ 70.10 THROUGH HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   All state routes are hereby designated as through highways, provided
that stop signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals shall be erected at
all intersections with such through highways by the Department of
Transportation as to highways under its jurisdiction and by local authorities
as to highways under their jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this
section. Where two or more state routes that are through highways intersect,
and no traffic-control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall
be erected at one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local
authorities having jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
Whenever the Director of Transportation determines on the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation that stop signs are necessary to stop
traffic on a through highway for safe and efficient operation, nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent such installations. When circumstances
warrant, the Director also may omit stop signs on roadways intersecting through
highways under his or her jurisdiction. Before the Director either installs or
removes a stop sign under this division, he or she shall give notice, in
writing, of that proposed action to the affected local authority at least 30
days before installing or removing the stop sign.
   (B)   Other streets or highways, or portions thereof, are hereby designated
as through highways if they are within the municipality, if they have a
continuous length of more than one mile between the limits of the street or
highway or portion thereof, and if they have stop or yield signs or traffic-
control signals at the entrances of the majority of intersecting streets or
highways. For purposes of this section, the limits of the street or highway, or
portion thereof, shall be the municipal corporation line, the physical terminus
of the street or highway, or any point on the streets or highway at which
vehicular traffic thereon is required by regulatory signs to stop or yield to
traffic on the intersecting street, provided, that in residence districts, the
municipality may by ordinance designate such street or highway, or portion
thereof, not to be a through highway and thereafter the affected residence
district shall be indicated by official traffic-control devices. Where two or
more through highways designated under this division intersect and no traffic-
control signal is in operation, stop signs or yield signs shall be erected at
one or more entrances thereto by the Department or by local authorities having
jurisdiction, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   The Department or local authorities having jurisdiction need not erect
stop signs at intersections they find to be so constructed as to permit traffic
to safely enter a through highway without coming to a stop. Signs shall be
erected at such intersections indicating that the operator of a vehicle shall
yield the right-of-way to or merge with all traffic proceeding on the through
highway.
   (D)   Local authorities, with reference to highways under their
jurisdiction, may designate additional through highways, and shall erect stop
signs, yield signs, or traffic-control signals at all streets and highways
intersecting such through highways, or may designate any intersection as a stop
or yield intersection, and shall erect like signs at one or more entrances to
the intersection.
(R.C. § 4511.65)
§ 70.11 OFFICER MAY REMOVE IGNITION KEY.
   A law enforcement officer may remove the ignition key left in the ignition
switch of an unlocked and unattended motor vehicle parked on a street or
highway. The officer removing the key shall place notification upon the vehicle
detailing his or her name and badge number, the place where the key may be
reclaimed, and the procedure for reclaiming the key. The key shall be returned
to the owner of the motor vehicle upon presentation of proof of ownership.
(R.C. § 4549.05)
§ 70.12 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES AFTER ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   If a motor vehicle accident occurs on any highway, public street, or
other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular travel and if any
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that has been damaged or spilled as
a result of the motor vehicle accident is blocking the highway, street, or
other property or is otherwise endangering public safety, a public safety
official may do either of the following without the consent of the owner but
with the approval of the law enforcement agency conducting any investigation of
the accident:
      (1)   Remove, or order the removal of, the motor vehicle if the motor
vehicle is unoccupied, cargo, or personal property from the portion of the
highway, public street, or property ordinarily used for vehicular travel on the
highway, public street, or other property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular travel.
      (2)   If the motor vehicle is a commercial motor vehicle, allow the owner
or operator of the vehicle the opportunity to arrange for the removal of the
motor vehicle within a period of time specified by the public safety official.
If the public safety official determines that the motor vehicle cannot be
removed within the specified period of time, the public safety official shall
remove or order the removal of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, the
Department of Transportation, any employee of the Department of Transportation,
or a public safety official who authorizes or participates in the removal of
any unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the removal is executed by
a private towing service, is not liable for civil damages for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that results from the removal of that
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property. Further, except as
provided in division (B)(2) of this section, if a public safety official
authorizes, employs, or arranges to have a private towing service remove any
unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property as authorized by division
(A) of this section, that private towing service is not liable for civil
damages for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that results from
the removal of that unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   Any person or entity involved in the removal of an unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property pursuant to division (A) of this
section if that removal causes or contributes to the release of a hazardous
material or to structural damage to the roadway;
         (b)   A private towing service that was not authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to remove an unoccupied motor vehicle,
cargo, or personal property under this section;
         (c)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(d) of this section, a
private towing service that was authorized, employed, or arranged by a public
safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied motor vehicle, cargo,
or personal property but the private towing service performed the removal in a
negligent manner;
         (d)   A private towing service that was authorized, employed, or
arranged by a public safety official to perform the removal of the unoccupied
motor vehicle, cargo, or personal property that was endangering public safety
but the private towing service performed the removal in a reckless manner.
   (C)   As used in divisions (A) and (B) of this section:
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.232.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The sheriff of the county, or the chief of a law enforcement
agency in the municipal corporation, township, port authority, conservancy
district, university campus police department, park district police force, or
township or joint police district, in which the accident occurred;
         (b)   A state highway patrol trooper;
         (c)   The chief of the fire department having jurisdiction where the
accident occurred;
         (d)   A duly authorized subordinate acting on behalf of an official
specified in divisions (a) to (c) of this definition;
         (e)   A natural resources officer or a wildlife officer.
(R.C. 4513.66)
   (D)   If a towing service is removing a motor vehicle, and the removal was
not authorized under R.C. § 4513.60, 4513.601, 4513.61, or 4513.66, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, prior to removing the motor
vehicle, the towing service shall provide a written estimate of the price for
the removal to the operator of the motor vehicle, if requested.
   (E)   The towing service shall ensure that any estimate provided under
division (D) of this section includes the fees, services to be rendered, and
destination of the vehicle.
   (F)   If a towing service fails to provide a written estimate as required by
this section, the towing service shall not charge fees for the towing and
storage of the motor vehicle that exceed 25% of any applicable fees established
by the public utilities commission in rules adopted under R.C. § 4921.25(B)(4)
or, if the vehicle was towed within a municipal corporation that has
established vehicle removal and storage fees, 25% of the fees established by
the municipal corporation.
   (G)   Any storage facility that accepts towed vehicles shall conspicuously
post a notice at the entrance to the storage facility that states the
limitation on fees established under division (F) of this section.
(R.C. § 4513.68)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 OBEYING TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No pedestrian or driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
instructions of any traffic- control device placed in accordance with the
provisions of this traffic code, unless at the time otherwise directed by a
police officer.
      (2)   No provision of this traffic code for which signs are required
shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the
alleged violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular
section of this traffic code does not state that signs are required, that
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(R.C. § 4511.12(A))
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, any operator
of a commercial motor vehicle, upon approaching a scale location established
for the purpose of determining the weight of the vehicle and its load, shall
comply with any traffic control device or the order of a peace officer
directing the vehicle to proceed to be weighed or otherwise inspected.
      (2)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle, upon bypassing a scale
location in accordance with division (C) of this section, shall comply with an
order of a peace officer to stop the vehicle to verify the use and operation of
an electronic clearance device.
   (C)   Any operator of a commercial motor vehicle that is equipped with an
electronic clearance device authorized by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4549.081 may bypass a scale location, regardless of
the instruction of a traffic control device to enter the scale facility, if
either of the following apply:
      (1)   The in-cab transponder displays a green light or other affirmative
visual signal and also sounds an affirmative audible signal;
      (2)   Any other criterion established by the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol is met.
   (D)   Any peace officer may order the operator of a commercial motor vehicle
that bypasses a scale location to stop the vehicle to verify the use and
operation of an electronic clearance device.
   (E)   As used in this section, COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE means any
combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating or an actual gross
vehicle weight of more than 10,000 pounds if the vehicle is used in interstate
or intrastate commerce to transport property and also means any vehicle that is
transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is required pursuant to
49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 180.
(R.C. § 4511.121(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   No person shall use an electronic clearance device if the device or
its use is not in compliance with rules of the Superintendent of the State
Highway Patrol.
(R.C. § 4549.081(B))
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree. If
the offender commits the offense while distracted and the distracting activity
is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense, the offender is
subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.12(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) of this
section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender commits the offense while
distracted and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the
commission of the offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine
established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.121(D))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a misdemeanor of the
third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.081(C))
Statutory reference:
   Placing traffic-control devices on state highways, permission required, see
R.C. § 4511.10
   Traffic-control devices to conform to the state manual and specifications,
see R.C. § 4511.11
   Uniform system of traffic-control devices, see R.C. § 4511.09
§ 70.31 SIGNAL LIGHTS.
   Highway traffic signal indications for vehicles and pedestrians shall have
the following meanings:
   (A)   Steady green signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal indication
is permitted to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-turn
movement except as such movement is modified by a lane-use sign, turn
prohibition sign, lane marking, roadway design, separate turn signal
indication, or other traffic control device. Such vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the
right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
movement to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching
from the opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the
intersection.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal indication, displayed
alone or in combination with another signal indication, is permitted to
cautiously enter the intersection only to make the movement indicated by such
arrow, or such other movement as is permitted by other indications displayed at
the same time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left
or making a u-turn movement, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the
following:
         (a)   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
         (b)   Other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (3)   (a)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication,
as provided in R.C. § 4511.14, pedestrians facing a circular green signal
indication are permitted to proceed across the roadway within any marked or
unmarked associated crosswalk. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection or so close as to create an immediate
hazard at the time that the green signal indication is first displayed.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a green arrow signal indication, unless
otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or other traffic control
device, shall not cross the roadway.
   (B)   Steady yellow signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular yellow signal indication
is thereby warned that the related green movement or the related flashing arrow
movement is being terminated or that a steady red signal indication will be
exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic shall not enter the
intersection. The provisions governing vehicular operation under the movement
being terminated shall continue to apply while the steady circular yellow
signal indication is displayed.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow arrow signal indication is
thereby warned that the related green arrow movement or the related flashing
arrow movement is being terminated. The provisions governing vehicular
operation under the movement being terminated shall continue to apply while the
steady yellow arrow signal indication is displayed.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing a steady circular yellow or yellow arrow signal
indication, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, shall not start to
cross the roadway.
   (C)   Steady red signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady circular red signal
indication, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted
by another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, traffic shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before
entering the intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication
to proceed is displayed except as provided in divisions (C)(1), (C)(2), and (C)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   Except when a traffic control device is in place prohibiting a
turn on red or a steady red arrow signal indication is displayed, vehicular
traffic facing a steady circular red signal indication is permitted, after
stopping, to enter the intersection to turn right, or to turn left from a one-
way street into a one-way street. The right to proceed with the turn shall be
subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow signal indication
shall not enter the intersection to make the movement indicated by the arrow
and, unless entering the intersection to make another movement permitted by
another signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line; but if
there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, then before entering the
intersection; and shall remain stopped until a signal indication or other
traffic control device permitting the movement indicated by such red arrow is
displayed.
         (b)   When a traffic control device is in place permitting a turn on a
steady red arrow signal indication, vehicular traffic facing a steady red arrow
indication is permitted, after stopping, to enter the intersection to turn
right, or to turn left from a one-way street into a one-way street. The right
to proceed with the turn shall be limited to the direction indicated by the
arrow and shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a
stop at a stop sign.
      (3)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication as
provided in R.C. § 4511.14 or other traffic control device, pedestrians facing
a steady circular red or steady red arrow signal indication shall not enter the
roadway.
      (4)   Local authorities by ordinance, or the Director of Transportation
on state highways, may prohibit a right or a left turn against a steady red
signal at any intersection, which shall be effective when signs giving notice
thereof are posted at the intersection.
   (D)   Flashing green signal indication. A flashing green signal indication
has no meaning and shall not be used.
   (E)   Flashing yellow signal indication.
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing circular yellow signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter
the intersection to proceed straight through or turn right or left or make a u-
turn movement except as such movement is modified by lane- use signs, turn
prohibition signs, lane markings, roadway design, separate turn signal
indications, or other traffic control devices. Such vehicular traffic,
including vehicles turning right or left or making a u-turn movement, shall
yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing
a flashing yellow arrow signal indication, displayed alone or in combination
with another signal indication, is permitted to cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or other such
movement as is permitted by other signal indications displayed at the same
time. Such vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left or
making a u-turn, shall yield the right-of-way to both of the following:
            1.   Pedestrians lawfully within an associated crosswalk;
            2.   Other vehicles lawfully within the intersection.
         (b)   In addition, vehicular traffic turning left or making a u-turn
to the left shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles approaching from the
opposite direction so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the
time when such turning vehicle is moving across or within the intersection.
      (3)   Pedestrians facing any flashing yellow signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing yellow signal indication is first displayed.
      (4)   When a flashing circular yellow signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory or warning requirements of the other traffic
control device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently
applicable.
   (F)   Flashing red signal indication.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic, on an approach to an intersection, facing a
flashing circular red signal indication, shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line; but if there is no stop line, before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection; or if there is no crosswalk, at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection. The right to proceed
shall be subject to the provisions that are applicable after making a stop at a
stop sign.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing any flashing red signal indication at an
intersection, unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian signal indication or
other traffic control device, are permitted to proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked associated crosswalk. Pedestrians shall yield the
right-of-way to vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the
flashing red signal indication is first displayed.
      (3)   When a flashing circular red signal indication is displayed as a
beacon to supplement another traffic control device, road users are notified
that there is a need to pay additional attention to the message contained
thereon or that the regulatory requirements of the other traffic control
device, which might not be applicable at all times, are currently applicable.
Use of this signal indication shall be limited to supplementing stop, do not
enter, or wrong way signs, and to applications where compliance with the
supplemented traffic control device requires a stop at a designated point.
   (G)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (H)   This section does not apply at railroad grade- crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
R.C. §§ 4511.61 and 4511.62.
(R.C. § 4511.13)
§ 70.32 SIGNALS OVER REVERSIBLE LANES.
   The meanings of lane-use control signal indications are as follows:
   (A)   A steady downward green arrow. A road user is permitted to drive in
the lane over which the arrow signal indication is located.
   (B)   A steady yellow “X”. A road user is to prepare to vacate the lane over
which the signal indication is located because a lane control change is being
made to a steady red “X” signal indication.
   (C)   A steady white two-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, but not
for through travel, with the understanding that common use of the lane by
oncoming road users for left turns also is permitted.
   (D)   A steady white one-way left-turn arrow. A road user is permitted to
use a lane over which the signal indication is located for a left turn, without
opposing turns in the same lane, but not for through travel.
   (E)   A steady red “X”. A road user is not permitted to use the lane over
which the signal indication is located and that this signal indication shall
modify accordingly the meaning of other traffic controls present.
(R.C. § 4511.131)
§ 70.33 AMBIGUOUS OR NON-WORKING TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle who approaches an intersection where traffic
is controlled by traffic control signals shall do all of the following if the
signal facing the driver exhibits no colored lights or colored lighted arrows,
exhibits a combination of such lights or arrows that fails to clearly indicate
the assignment of right-of-way, or, if the vehicle is a bicycle or an electric
bicycle, the signals are otherwise malfunctioning due to the failure of a
vehicle detector to detect the presence of the bicycle or electric bicycle:
      (1)   Stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, if none, stop
before entering the intersection;
      (2)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicles in the intersection or
approaching on an intersecting road, if the vehicles will constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways;
      (3)   Exercise ordinary care while proceeding through the intersection.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.132)
§ 70.34 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “walk” or
“don’t walk”, or the symbol of a walking person or an upraised palm are in
place, these signals shall indicate the following instructions:
   (A)   A steady walking person signal indication, which symbolizes “walk”,
means that a pedestrian facing the signal indication is permitted to start to
cross the roadway in the direction of the signal indication, possibly in
conflict with turning vehicles. The pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to
vehicles lawfully within the intersection at the time that the walking person
signal indication is first shown.
   (B)   A flashing upraised hand signal indication, which symbolizes “don’t
walk”, means that a pedestrian shall not start to cross the roadway in the
direction of the signal indication, but that any pedestrian who has already
started to cross on a steady walking person signal indication shall proceed to
the far side of the traveled way of the street or highway, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic control device to proceed only to the median of a divided
highway or only to some other island or pedestrian refuge area.
   (C)   A steady upraised hand signal indication means that a pedestrian shall
not enter the roadway in the direction of the signal indication.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the continued
use of pedestrian control signals utilizing the word “wait” if those signals
were installed prior to March 28, 1985.
   (E)   A flashing walking person signal indication has no meaning and shall
not be used.
(R.C. § 4511.14)
§ 70.35 UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS AND SIGNALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of
any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to
be, is an imitation of, or resembles a traffic-control device or railroad sign
or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal, and no person shall place or maintain, nor shall any
public authority permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing
thereon any commercial advertising. This section does not prohibit either the
erection upon private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful
directional information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for traffic-
control devices, or the erection upon private property of traffic-control
devices by the owner of real property in accordance with R.C. §§ 4511.211 and
4511.432.
      (2)   Every prohibited sign, signal, marking, or device is a public
nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway may remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.16)
§ 70.36 ALTERATION, DEFACEMENT, OR REMOVAL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, without lawful authority, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly move, deface, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly
tamper with any traffic-control device, any railroad sign or signal, or any
inscription, shield, or insignia on the device, sign, or signal, or any part of
the device, sign, or signal;
      (2)   Knowingly drive upon or over any freshly applied pavement marking
material on the surface of a roadway while the marking material is in an
undried condition, and is marked by flags, markers, signs, or other devices
intended to protect it;
      (3)   Knowingly move, damage, destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper
with a manhole cover.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of
this section causes serious physical harm to property that is owned, leased, or
controlled by a state or local authority, the offender is guilty of a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within
one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses,
whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.17)
§ 70.37 UNAUTHORIZED POSSESSION OR SALE OF DEVICES.
   (A)   As used in this section, TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE means any sign,
traffic control signal or other device conforming to and placed or erected in
accordance with the manual adopted under R.C. § 4511.09 by authority of a
public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating,
warning or guiding traffic, including signs denoting the names of streets and
highways, but does not mean any pavement marking.
   (B)   No individual shall buy or otherwise possess, or sell, a traffic
control device, except when one of the following applies:
      (1)   In the course of the individual’s employment by the state or a
local authority for the express or implied purpose of manufacturing, providing,
erecting, moving or removing such a traffic control device;
      (2)   In the course of the individual’s employment by any manufacturer of
traffic control devices other than a state or local authority;
      (3)   For the purpose of demonstrating the design and function of a
traffic control device to state or local officials;
      (4)   When the traffic control device has been purchased from the state
or a local authority at a sale of property that is no longer needed or is unfit
for use; or
      (5)   When the traffic control device has been properly purchased from a
manufacturer for use on private property and the person possessing the device
has a sales receipt for the device or other acknowledgment of sale issued by
the manufacturer.
   (C)   This section does not preclude, and shall not be construed as
precluding, prosecution for theft in violation of R.C. § 2913.02, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or for receiving stolen property
in violation of R.C. § 2913.51, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.18)
§ 70.38 SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICES; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall possess a portable signal preemption device.
      (2)   No person shall use a portable signal preemption device to affect
the operation of a traffic-control device.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any of the following
persons and division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any of the
following persons when responding to an emergency call:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 109.71(A)(1), (A)(12), (A)
(14), or (A)(19);
      (2)   A state highway patrol officer;
      (3)   A person while occupying a public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01(E)(1), (E)(3), or (E)(4).
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, PORTABLE SIGNAL PREEMPTION DEVICE means a
device that, if activated by a person, is capable of changing a traffic-control
signal to green out of sequence.
(R.C. § 4511.031)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violates any provision of this traffic code for
which no penalty otherwise is provided in the section violated is guilty of one
of the following:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section, a minor misdemeanor;
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
      (3)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more predicate motor vehicle or
traffic offenses, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.99)
   (B)   Violations committed while distracted.
      (1)   As used in this section and each section referenced in division (B)
(2) of this section, all of the following apply:
         (a)   “Distracted” means doing either of the following while operating
a vehicle:
            1.   Using an electronic wireless communications device, as defined
in R.C. § 4511.204, in violation of that section.
            2.   Engaging in any activity that is not necessary to the
operation of a vehicle and impairs, or reasonably would be expected to impair,
the ability of the operator to drive the vehicle safely.
         (b)   “Distracted” does not include operating a motor vehicle while
wearing an earphone or earplug over or in both ears at the same time. A person
who so wears earphones or earplugs may be charged with a violation of R.C. §
4511.84, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (c)   “Distracted” does not include conducting any activity while
operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or on behalf of a utility,
provided that the driver of the vehicle is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage, or a circumstance affecting the health or safety of individuals.
As used in this division (B)(1)(c):
            UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E),
or (G).
            UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      (2)   If an offender violates R.C. § 4511.03, 4511.051, 4511.12,
4511.121, 4511.132, 4511.21, 4511.211, 4511.213, 4511.22, 4511.23, 4511.25,
4511.26, 4511.27, 4511.28, 4511.29, 4511.30, 4511.31, 4511.32, 4511.33,
4511.34, 4511.35, 4511.36, 4511.37, 4511.38, 4511.39, 4511.40, 4511.41,
4511.42, 4511.43, 4511.431, 4511.44, 4511.441, 4511.451, 4511.46, 4511.47,
4511.54, 4511.55, 4511.57, 4511.58, 4511.59, 4511.60, 4511.61, 4511.64,
4511.71, 4511.711, 4511.712, 4511.713, 4511.72, or 4511.73, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
violation, the offender is subject to the applicable penalty for the violation
and, notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, is subject to an additional fine of not
more than $100 as follows:
         (a)   1.   Subject to Traffic Rule 13, if a law enforcement officer
issues an offender a ticket, citation, or summons for a violation of any of the
aforementioned sections of the Ohio Revised Code, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the offender may enter
a written plea of guilty and waive the offender’s right to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial provided that the offender pays the total
amount of the fine established for the violation and pays the additional fine
of $100.
            2.    In lieu of payment of the additional fine of $100, the
offender instead may elect to attend a distracted driving safety course, the
duration and contents of which shall be established by the Ohio Director of
Public Safety. If the offender attends and successfully completes the course,
the offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of $100, so long as the offender submits to the court both the
offender’s payment in full and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
         (b)   1.   If the offender appears in person to contest the ticket,
citation, or summons in a trial and the offender pleads guilty to or is
convicted of the violation, the court, in addition to all other penalties
provided by law, may impose the applicable penalty for the violation and may
impose the additional fine of not more than $100.
            2.    If the court imposes upon the offender the applicable penalty
for the violation and an additional fine of not more than $100, the court shall
inform the offender that, in lieu of payment of the additional fine of not more
than $100, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted driving
safety course described in division (B)(2)(a) of this section. If the offender
elects the course option and attends and successfully completes the course, the
offender shall be issued written evidence that the offender successfully
completed the course. The offender shall be required to pay the total amount of
the fine established for the violation, but shall not be required to pay the
additional fine of not more than $100, so long as the offender submits to the
court the offender’s payment and such written evidence within 90 days of the
underlying violation that resulted in the imposition of the additional fine
under division (B) of this section.
      (3)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation
or summons for a violation of any of the sections of the Revised Code listed in
division (B)(2) of this section that indicates that the offender was distracted
while committing the violation and that the distracting activity was a
contributing factor to the commission of the violation, the officer shall do
both of the following:
         (a)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency; and
         (b)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
(R.C. § 4511.991)
   (C)   Sentencing. Whoever is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor shall be sentenced in accordance with §
130.99.
Cross-reference:
   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor, see §
130.18
   Multiple sentences, see §
130.19
Statutory reference:
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
CHAPTER 71: LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Motor Vehicle Licensing
   
71.01   Display of license plates or validation stickers; registration
   
71.02   Improper use of noncommercial motor vehicle
   
71.03   Operating motor vehicle ordered immobilized; forfeiture
   
71.04   Operation or sale without certificate of title
   
71.05   Display of certificate of registration
   
71.06   Use of unauthorized plates
   
71.07   Operating without dealer or manufacturer license plates
Driver’s Licenses
   
71.20   Prohibited acts
   
71.21   Permitting minor to operate vehicle prohibited; temporary instruction
permit; probationary license
   
71.22   License required as driver or commercial driver on public or private
property; nonresident exemption
   
71.23   Employment of a minor to operate a taxicab prohibited
   
71.24   Restriction against owner lending vehicle for use of another
   
71.25   Suspension of driver’s licenses; license suspended by court of record
   
71.26   Display of license
   
71.27   Prohibition against false statements
   
71.28   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction
   
71.29   Operating motor vehicle or motorcycle without valid license
   
71.30   Driving under OVI suspension
   
71.31   Driving under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation;
driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension
   
71.32   Failure to reinstate license
Commercial Driver’s Licenses
   
71.45   Definitions
   
71.46   Use of actual gross weight in lieu of rating
   
71.47   Prohibited acts
   
71.48   Prerequisites to operation of commercial motor vehicle
   
71.49   Physical qualification to operate commercial motor vehicles
   
71.50   Criminal offenses
   
71.51   Application of federal regulations
   
71.52   Employment of drivers of commercial vehicles
   
71.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Commercial driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4506
   Driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4507
   Motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. Chapter 4504
   Municipal motor vehicle license tax, see R.C. § 4504.06
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Proof of financial responsibility required; civil penalties; peace officers
as agents of Registrar of Motor Vehicles; procedures and rules, see R.C. §§
4509.101 et seq.
   Suspension and revocation of driver’s licenses, see R.C. Chapter 4510
   Suspension of driver’s licenses; municipal power to suspend for a period not
to exceed time permitted or required by state law, see R.C. § 4510.05
MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSING
§ 71.01 DISPLAY OF LICENSE PLATES OR VALIDATION STICKERS; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person who is the owner or operator of a motor vehicle shall
fail to display in plain view on the rear of the motor vehicle a license plate
that displays the distinctive number and registration mark assigned to the
motor vehicle by the Ohio Director of Public Safety, including any county
identification sticker and any validation sticker when required by and issued
under R.C. §§ 4503.19 and 4503.191. However, a commercial tractor shall display
the license plate on the front of the commercial tractor.
      (2)   The license plate shall be securely fastened so as not to swing,
and shall not be covered by any material that obstructs its visibility.
      (3)   No person to whom a temporary motor vehicle license registration
has been issued for the use of a motor vehicle under R.C. § 4503.182, and no
operator of that motor vehicle, shall fail to display the temporary motor
vehicle license registration in plain view from the rear of the vehicle either
in the rear window or on an external rear surface of the motor vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall cover a temporary motor vehicle license
registration by any material that obstructs its visibility.
(R.C. § 4503.21(A))
   (B)    Except as otherwise provided by R.C. §§ 4503.103, 4503.107, 4503.173,
4503.41, 4503.43, and 4503.46, no person who is the owner or chauffeur of a
motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways shall fail
to file annually the application for registration or to pay the tax therefor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(A))
   (C)    (1)   Within 30 days of becoming a resident of this state, any person
who owns a motor vehicle operated or driven upon the public roads or highways
shall register the vehicle in this state. If such a person fails to register a
vehicle owned by the person, the person shall not operate any motor vehicle in
this state under a license issued by another state.
      (2)   For purposes of division (C)(1) of this section, RESIDENT means any
person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4503.111(A), (C))
   (D)   Upon the transfer of ownership of a motor vehicle, the registration of
the motor vehicle expires, and the original owner immediately shall remove the
license plates from the motor vehicle, except as otherwise provided in R.C. §
4503.12.
(R.C. § 4503.12(A))
   (E)   No person shall operate or drive upon the highways of this
municipality a motor vehicle acquired from a former owner who has registered
the motor vehicle, while the motor vehicle displays the distinctive number or
identification mark assigned to it upon its original registration.
(R.C. § 4549.11(A))
   (F)   No person who is the owner of a motor vehicle and a resident of this
state shall operate or drive the motor vehicle upon the highways of this
municipality while it displays a distinctive number or identification mark
issued by or under the authority of another state, without complying with the
laws of this state relating to the registration and identification of motor
vehicles.
(R.C. § 4549.12(A))
   (G)   (1)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4503.21(B), (C))
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4503.11(D))
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (G)(3)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4503.111(B))
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4503.12(D))
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
operation of a motor vehicle bearing license plates or an identification mark
issued to another, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.11(B))
      (6)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation by a resident of this state of a motor vehicle bearing the
distinctive number or identification mark issued by a foreign jurisdiction, a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.12(B))
§ 71.02 IMPROPER USE OF NONCOMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall use a motor vehicle registered as a noncommercial
motor vehicle for other than the purposes set forth in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4503.05)
§ 71.03 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE ORDERED IMMOBILIZED; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or permit the operation of a
motor vehicle upon any public or private property used by the public for
vehicular travel or parking knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that
the motor vehicle has been ordered immobilized pursuant to an immobilization
order issued under R.C. § 4503.233.
   (B)   A motor vehicle that is operated by a person during a violation of
division (A) of this section shall be criminally forfeited to the state in
accordance with the procedures contained in R.C. § 4503.234.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4503.236)
§ 71.04 OPERATION OR SALE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE OF TITLE.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this municipality a motor vehicle for which a
certificate of title is required without having that certificate in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 4505 or, if a physical certificate of title has not been
issued for a motor vehicle, operate the motor vehicle in this state knowing
that the ownership information relating to the vehicle has not been entered
into the automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common
Pleas;
      (2)   Display or display for sale or sell as a dealer or acting on behalf
of a dealer, a motor vehicle without having obtained a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate, a certificate of title, or an assignment of a
certificate of title for it as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title or any certificate of
registration or license plates upon cancellation of the same by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed in R.C. Chapter
4505;
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4505 in case of the destruction or
dismantling or change of a motor vehicle in such respect that it is not the
motor vehicle described in the certificate of title;
      (5)   Violate any rules adopted pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4505;
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapters 4505 and 4517, sell
at wholesale a motor vehicle ownership of which is not evidenced by an Ohio
certificate of title, or the current certificate of title issued for the motor
vehicle, or the manufacturer’s certificate of origin, and all title assignments
that evidence the seller’s ownership of the motor vehicle, and an odometer
disclosure statement that complies with R.C. § 4505.06 and subchapter IV of the
“Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act”, 86 Stat. 961 (1972), 15
U.S.C. § 1981;
      (7)   Operate in this state a motor vehicle knowing that the certificate
of title to the vehicle or ownership of the vehicle as otherwise reflected in
the automated title processing system has been canceled.
   (B)   This section does not apply to persons engaged in the business of
warehousing or transporting motor vehicles for the purpose of salvage
disposition.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4505.18)
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a “commercial car”, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, when the commercial car is required to be registered under state law,
shall, when operating the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer on the
streets, roads, or highways of this municipality display inside or on the
vehicle the certificate of registration for the commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer provided for in R.C. § 4503.19, or shall carry the certificate on
the operator’s person and display it upon the demand of any peace officer.
      (2)   Every person operating a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
required to be registered under state law shall permit the inspection of the
certificate of registration upon demand of any peace officer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
commercial car certificate of registration violation, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.18)
§ 71.06 USE OF UNAUTHORIZED PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or drive a motor vehicle upon the public roads
and highways in this municipality if it displays a license plate or a
distinctive number or identification mark that meets any of the following
criteria:
      (1)   It is fictitious;
      (2)   It is a counterfeit or an unlawfully made copy of any distinctive
number or identification mark;
      (3)   It belongs to another motor vehicle, provided that this section
does not apply to a motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads and
highways in this municipality when the motor vehicle displays license plates
that originally were issued for a motor vehicle that previously was owned by
the same person who owns the motor vehicle that is operated on the public roads
and highways in this municipality during the 30-day period described in R.C. §
4503.12(A)(4).
   (B)   A person who fails to comply with the transfer of registration
provisions of R.C. § 4503.12 and is charged with a violation of that section
shall not be charged with a violation of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is
guilty of operating a motor vehicle bearing an invalid license plate or
identification mark, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and
a misdemeanor of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 4549.08)
§ 71.07 OPERATING WITHOUT DEALER OR MANUFACTURER LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon a public road or
highway a motor vehicle of a manufacturer or dealer unless the vehicle carries
and displays a placard, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.21, issued by the
Director of Public Safety that displays the registration number of its
manufacturer or dealer.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of illegal
operation of a manufacturer’s or dealer’s motor vehicle, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4549.10)
DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.20 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Display or cause or permit to be displayed, or possess any
identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
knowing the same to be fictitious, or to have been canceled, suspended, or
altered;
      (2)   Lend to a person not entitled thereto, or knowingly permit a person
not entitled thereto to use any identification card, driver’s or commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit or commercial driver’s license
temporary instruction permit issued to the person so lending or permitting the
use thereof;
      (3)   Display, or represent as one’s own, any identification card,
driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit not issued to the
person so displaying the same;
      (4)   Fail to surrender to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, upon the
Registrar’s demand, any identification card, driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit that has been suspended or canceled;
      (5)   In any application for an identification card, driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or any renewal, reprint, or
duplicate thereof, knowingly conceal a material fact or present any physician’s
statement required under R.C. § 4507.08 or 4507.081 when knowing the same to be
false or fictitious.
   (B)   Whoever violates any division of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.30)
Statutory reference:
   Use of license to violate liquor laws; suspension; procedures, see R.C. §
4510.33
§ 71.21 PERMITTING MINOR TO OPERATE VEHICLE PROHIBITED; TEMPORARY INSTRUCTION
PERMIT; PROBATIONARY LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall cause or knowingly permit any minor to drive a motor
vehicle upon a highway as an operator, unless the minor has first obtained a
license or permit to drive a motor vehicle under R.C. Chapter 4507.
(R.C. § 4507.31(A))
   (B)   (1)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
in violation of the conditions established under R.C. § 4507.05(A).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
holder of a temporary instruction permit that is issued under R.C. § 4507.05(A)
and that is issued on or after July 1, 1998, and who has not attained the age
of 18 years, shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking
between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m.
         (b)   The holder of a temporary instruction permit issued under R.C. §
4507.05(A) on or after July 1, 1998, who has not attained the age of 18 years,
may operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or any public or private property
used by the public for purposed of vehicular travel or parking between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. if, at the time of such operation, the holder
is accompanied by the holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian, and the parent,
guardian, or custodian holds a current valid driver’s or commercial driver’s
license issued by this state, is actually occupying a seat beside the permit
holder, and does not have a prohibited concentration of alcohol in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as provided in R.C. § 4511.19
(A).
(R.C. § 4507.05(F))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held
the license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a
highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m. unless
the holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
         (b)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for 12 months or longer shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. unless the
holder is accompanied by the holder’s parent or guardian.
      (2)   (a)   Subject to division (E)(1) of this section, division (C)(1)
(a) of this section does not apply to the holder of a probationary driver’s
license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of midnight and 6:
00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided
that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written documentation
from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
         (b)   Division (C)(1)(b) of this section does not apply to the holder
of a probationary driver’s license who is doing either of the following:
            1.   Traveling to or from work between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession
written documentation from the holder’s employer.
            2.   Traveling to or from an official function sponsored by the
school the holder attends between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.,
provided that the holder has in the holder’s immediate possession written
documentation from an appropriate official of the school;
            3.   Traveling to or from an official religious event between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m., provided that the holder has in the holder’s
immediate possession written documentation from an appropriate official
affiliated with the event.
      (3)   An employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event is not liable in damages in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises from, or is related
to, the fact that the employer, school official, or official affiliated with a
religious event provided the holder of a probationary driver’s license with the
written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section. The
Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall make available at no cost a form to serve as
the written documentation described in division (C)(2) of this section, and
employers, school officials, officials affiliated with religious events, and
holders of probationary driver’s licenses may utilize that form or may choose
to utilize any other written documentation to meet the requirements of that
division.
      (4)   No holder of a probationary driver’s license who has held the
license for less than 12 months shall operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking with more than one person who is not a family member
occupying the vehicle unless the probationary license holder is accompanied by
the probationary license holder’s parent, guardian, or custodian.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or
(C)(1)(b) of this section if, at the time of the violation, an emergency
existed that required the holder of the probationary driver’s license to
operate a motor vehicle in violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section or the holder was an emancipated minor.
   (E)   (1)   If a person is issued a probationary driver’s license prior to
attaining the age of 17 years and the person pleads guilty to, is convicted of,
or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a moving violation
during the six-month period commencing on the date on which the person is
issued the probationary driver’s license, the court with jurisdiction over the
violation may order that the holder must be accompanied by the holder’s parent
or guardian whenever the holder is operating a motor vehicle upon a highway or
any public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking for a period not to exceed six months or the date the holder
attains the age of 17 years, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Any person who is subject to the operating restrictions established
under division (E)(1) of this section as a result of a first moving violation
may petition the court for driving privileges without being accompanied by the
holder’s parent or guardian during the period of time determined by the court
under that division. In granting the driving privileges, the court shall
specify the purposes of the privileges and shall issue the person appropriate
forms setting forth the privileges granted. If a person is convicted of, pleads
guilty to, or is adjudicated in juvenile court of having committed a second or
subsequent moving violation, the court with jurisdiction over the violation may
terminate any driving privileges previously granted under this division.
      (3)   No person shall violate any operating restriction imposed under
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section.
   (F)   No holder of a probationary license shall operate a motor vehicle upon
a highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking unless the total number of occupants of the vehicle
does not exceed the total number of occupant restraining devices originally
installed in the motor vehicle by its manufacturer, and each occupant of the
vehicle is wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted
occupant restraining device.
   (G)   A restricted license may be issued to a person who is 14 or 15 years
of age under proof of hardship satisfactory to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether each occupant of the motor vehicle is wearing all of the
available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device as
required by division (F) of this section, or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons if that requirement has been or is being violated,
or for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a
violation of that requirement.
   (I)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this
section has been or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a
ticket, citation or summons for such a violation or for causing the arrest or
commencing a prosecution of a person for such a violation.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY MEMBER. A family member of a probationary license holder includes
any of the following:
         (a)   A spouse;
         (b)   A child or stepchild;
         (c)   A parent, stepparent, grandparent, or parent-in-law;
         (d)   An aunt or uncle;
         (e)   A sibling, whether of the whole or half blood or by adoption, a
brother-in- law, or a sister-in-law;
         (f)   A son or daughter of the probationary license holder’s
stepparent if the stepparent has not adopted the probationary license holder;
         (g)   An eligible adult, as defined in R.C. § 4507.05.
      MOVING VIOLATION. Means any violation of any statute or ordinance that
regulates the operation of vehicles on the highways or streets. The term does
not include a violation of R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a violation of any statute or ordinance regulating
pedestrians or the parking of vehicles, vehicle size or load limitations,
vehicle fitness requirements, or vehicle registration.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4513.263.
(R.C. § 4507.071(B) - (I))
   (K)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.31(B))
      (2)   Whoever violates divisions (B), (C)(1), (C)(4), (E)(3), or (F) of
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4507.05(I), 4507.071(J))
§ 71.22 LICENSE REQUIRED AS DRIVER OR COMMERCIAL DRIVER ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY; NONRESIDENT EXEMPTION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   No person shall permit the operation of a motor vehicle
upon any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking, knowing the operator does not have a valid
driver’s license issued to the operator by the Registrar of Motor Vehicle or a
deputy registrar under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid commercial driver’s license
issued under R.C. Chapter 4506. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
whoever violates this division is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   No person shall receive a driver’s license, or a motorcycle
operator’s endorsement of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card unless and until the person
surrenders to the Registrar or a deputy registrar all valid licenses, temporary
instruction permits, and identification cards issued to the person by another
jurisdiction recognized by this state.
      (3)   The Registrar shall report the cancellation of a license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card to the issuing authority, together
with information that the license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card is now issued in this state. The Registrar or a deputy
registrar shall destroy any such license, temporary instruction permit, or
identification card that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (4)   No person shall possess more than one valid license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card at any time.
(R.C. § 4507.02(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling a road roller or road machinery upon a street or highway.
      (2)   No person shall be required to obtain a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license for the purpose of temporarily driving, operating, drawing,
moving, or propelling any agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a
street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      (3)   No person shall drive, operate, draw, move, or propel any
agricultural tractor or implement of husbandry upon a street or highway at a
speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the person has a current, valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (4)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate a
motorcycle having three wheels with a motor of not more than 50 cubic
centimeters piston displacement.
      (5)   No person having a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license
shall be required to have a motorcycle operator’s endorsement to operate an
autocycle or a cab-enclosed motorcycle.
      (6)   Every person on active duty in the military or naval forces of the
United States, when furnished with a driver’s permit and when operating an
official motor vehicle in connection with such duty, is exempt from the license
requirements of R.C. Chapters 4506 and 4507. Every person on active duty in the
military or naval forces of the United States or in service with the peace
corps, volunteers in service to America, or the foreign service of the United
States, is exempt from the license requirements of such sections for the period
of the person’s active duty or service and for six months thereafter, provided
such person was a licensee under such sections at the time the person commenced
the person’s active duty or service. This section does not prevent such a
person or the person’s spouse or dependent from making an application, as
provided in R.C. § 4507.10(C), for the renewal of a driver’s license or
motorcycle operator’s endorsement or as provided in R.C. § 4506.14 for the
renewal of a commercial driver’s license during the period of the person’s
active duty or service.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.03)
   (C)   Nonresidents, permitted to drive upon the highways of their own state,
may operate any motor vehicle upon any highway in this state without
examination or license under R.C. §§ 4507.01 through 4507.39, inclusive, upon
condition that such nonresident may be required at any time or place to prove
lawful possession or their right to operate such motor vehicle, and to
establish proper identity.
(R.C. § 4507.04)
   (D)   Surrender of driver’s license from another state.
      (1)   Any person who becomes a resident of this state, within 30 days of
becoming a resident, shall surrender any driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or identification card issued by another state to the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a deputy registrar. If such a person intends to
operate a motor vehicle upon the public roads or highways, the person shall
apply for a temporary instruction permit or driver’s license in this state. If
the person fails to apply for a driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit or within 30 days of becoming a resident, the person shall not operate
any motor vehicle in this state under a license or permit issued by another
state.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of
a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   The offense established under division (D)(2)(a) of this section
is a strict liability offense and strict liability is a culpable mental state
for purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of this offense as a strict
liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
      (3)   For purposes of division (D)(1) of this section, “resident” means
any person to whom any of the following applies:
         (a)   The person maintains their principal residence in this state and
does not reside in this state as a result of the person’s active service in the
United States armed forces.
         (b)   The person is determined by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles to
be a resident in accordance with standards adopted by the Registrar under R.C.
§ 4507.01.
(R.C. § 4507.213)
§ 71.23 EMPLOYMENT OF A MINOR TO OPERATE A TAXICAB PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the definition of “chauffeur” in R.C. § 4501.01, no
person shall employ any minor for the purpose of operating a taxicab.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.321)
§ 71.24 RESTRICTION AGAINST OWNER LENDING VEHICLE FOR USE OF ANOTHER.
   (A)   No person shall permit a motor vehicle owned by the person or under
the person’s control to be driven by another if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person does not have a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or valid nonresident driving privileges;
      (2)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privileges have been suspended or canceled under R.C. Chapter 4510 or
any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (3)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving the motor vehicle would violate any prohibition
contained in R.C. Chapter 4509.
      (4)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
other person’s act of driving would violate R.C. § 4511.19 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (5)   The offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the
vehicle is the subject of an immobilization waiver order issued under R.C. §
4503.235 and the other person is prohibited from operating the vehicle under
that order.
   (B)   Without limiting or precluding the consideration of any other evidence
in determining whether a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section has occurred, it shall be prima facie evidence that
the offender knows or has reasonable cause to believe that the operator of the
motor vehicle owned by the offender or under the offender’s control is in a
category described in division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(1), (A)(3), or (A)(5) of this section, the offender and the
operator of the motor vehicle reside in the same household and are related by
consanguinity or affinity.
      (2)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(2) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle reside in the same household, and the offender knows or has reasonable
cause to believe that the operator has been charged with or convicted of any
violation of law or ordinance, or has committed any other act or omission, that
would or could result in the suspension or cancellation of the operator’s
license, permit, or privilege.
      (3)   Regarding an operator allegedly in the category described in
division (A)(4) of this section, the offender and the operator of the motor
vehicle occupied the motor vehicle together at the time of the offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of wrongful entrustment of a
motor vehicle, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (C) to (H) of
this section.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3) of this section is guilty of an
unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the
offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   (a)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)
(2), or (A)(3) of this section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to
or been convicted of two or more violations of division (A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)
(3) of this section, R.C. § 4511.203(A)(1), (A)(2), or (A)(3), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   For any violation of this section, in addition to the penalties
imposed under this Code or R.C. Chapter 2929, the court may impose a class
seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), and, if
the vehicle involved in the offense is registered in the name of the offender,
the court may order one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, the court may order, for 30 days, the immobilization of the
vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license
plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §
4503.233.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order, for 60 days, the
immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense and the impoundment of
that vehicle’s license plates. If issued, the order shall be issued and
enforced under R.C. § 4503.233.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4511.203, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court may order the criminal
forfeiture to the state of the vehicle involved in the offense. If issued, the
order shall be issued and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234.
      (4)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order for
criminal forfeiture under division (C)(3)(c) of this section is assigned or
transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in addition to or
independent of any other penalty established by law, the court may fine the
offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the National
Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine imposed under this
division shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (D)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(a) or (C)(3)(b) of this section, the court shall not release the vehicle
from the immobilization before the termination of the period of immobilization
ordered unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
   (E)   If a court orders the criminal forfeiture of a vehicle under division
(C)(3)(c) of this section, upon receipt of the order from the court, neither
the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor any deputy registrar shall accept any
application for the registration or transfer of registration of any motor
vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the order. The period of denial
shall be five years after the date the order is issued, unless, during that
five-year period, the court with jurisdiction of the offense that resulted in
the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar of the
termination. If the court terminates the forfeiture and notifies the Registrar,
the Registrar shall take all necessary measures to permit the person to
register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to transfer the
registration of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section does not apply to motor vehicle rental dealers or motor
vehicle leasing dealers, as defined in R.C. § 4549.65.
   (G)   Evidence of a conviction of, plea of guilty to, or adjudication as a
delinquent child for a violation of this section shall not be admissible as
evidence in any civil action that involves the offender or delinquent child who
is the subject of the conviction, plea, or adjudication and that arises from
the wrongful entrustment of a motor vehicle.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, a vehicle is owned by a person if, at
the time of a violation of this section, the vehicle is registered in the
person’s name.
(R.C. § 4511.203)
§ 71.25 SUSPENSION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE; LICENSE SUSPENDED BY COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. § 4510.07 or in any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code, whenever an offender is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a violation of any provision of this code that is
substantially equivalent to a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, and a court
is permitted or required to suspend a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for a violation of that provision, a court, in addition to
any other penalties authorized by law, may suspend the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or non resident operating privileges for
the period of time the court determines appropriate, but the period of
suspension imposed for the violation of the provision of this code shall not
exceed the period of suspension that is permitted or required to be imposed for
the violation of the provision of the Ohio Revised Code to which the provision
of this code is substantially equivalent.
(R.C. § 4510.05)
   (B)   Whenever a person is found guilty under the laws of this state or any
ordinance of any political subdivision of this state, of operating a motor
vehicle in violation of any such law or ordinance relating to reckless
operation, the trial court of any court of record, in addition to or
independent of all other penalties provided by law, may impose a class five
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(5).
   (C)   Suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section shall
be concurrent with any period of suspension disqualification under R.C. §
3123.58 or 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from holding a
commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a driver’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the commercial
driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person whose
commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the suspension.
(R.C. § 4510.15)
§ 71.26 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall display the operator’s driver’s
license, or furnish satisfactory proof that the operator has a driver’s
license, upon demand of any peace officer or of any person damaged or injured
in any collision in which the licensee may be involved. When a demand is
properly made, and the operator has the operator’s driver’s license on or about
the operator’s person, the operator shall not refuse to display the license. A
person’s failure to furnish satisfactory evidence that the person is licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4507 when the person does not have the person’s license on
or about the person’s person shall be prima facie evidence of the person’s not
having obtained a driver’s license.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section,
R.C. § 4507.35, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4507.35)
§ 71.27 PROHIBITION AGAINST FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement to any matter or
thing required by the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4507.36)
§ 71.28 DRIVING UNDER SUSPENSION OR IN VIOLATION OF LICENSE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Driving under suspension or in violation of license restriction.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, division (B)
of this section, §
71.31 and in R.C. §§ 4510.111 and 4510.16, no person whose driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended under any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, other than R.C.
Chapter 4509, or under any applicable law in any other jurisdiction in which
the person’s license or permit was issued shall operate any motor vehicle upon
the public roads and highways or upon any public or private property used by
the public for purposes of vehicular travel or parking within this municipality
during the period of suspension unless the person is granted limited driving
privileges and is operating the vehicle in accordance with the terms of the
limited driving privileges.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality in violation of any restriction of the person’s
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit imposed under R.C. § 4506.10
(D) or 4507.14.
      (3)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under
suspension at the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(1) of this
section or the person operated a motor vehicle in violation of a restriction at
the time of the alleged violation of division (A)(2) of this section. The
person charged with a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. The court may impose upon the
offender a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. §
4510.02(A)(7).
         (b)   1.   Except as provided in division (A)(4)(b)2. or (A)(4)(b)3.
of this section, the court, in addition to any other penalty that it imposes on
the offender and if the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111
or 4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in
addition to or independent of any other sentence that it imposes upon the
offender, may order the immobilization of the vehicle involved in the offense
for 30 days and the impoundment of that vehicle’s license plates for 30 days in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            2.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to two violations of this section, or any combination of
two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to any
other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may order the immobilization of
the vehicle involved in the offense for 60 days and the impoundment of that
vehicle’s license plates for 60 days in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
            3.   If the vehicle is registered in the offender’s name and if,
within three years of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, or any
combination of three or more violations of this section or R.C. § 4510.11,
4510.111 or 4510.16, or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
court, in addition to any other sentence that it imposes on the offender, may
order the criminal forfeiture of the vehicle involved in the offense to the
state.
      (5)   Any order for immobilization and impoundment under this section
shall be issued and enforced under R.C. §§ 4503.233 and 4507.02, as applicable.
The court shall not release a vehicle from immobilization ordered under this
section unless the court is presented with current proof of financial
responsibility with respect to that vehicle.
      (6)   Any order of criminal forfeiture under this section shall be issued
and enforced under R.C. § 4503.234. Upon receipt of the copy of the order from
the court, neither the Registrar of Motor Vehicles nor a deputy registrar shall
accept any application for the registration or transfer of registration of any
motor vehicle owned or leased by the person named in the declaration of
forfeiture. The period of registration denial shall be five years after the
date of the order, unless, during that period, the court having jurisdiction of
the offense that led to the order terminates the forfeiture and notifies the
Registrar of the termination. The Registrar then shall take necessary measures
to permit the person to register a vehicle owned or leased by the person or to
transfer registration of the vehicle.
      (7)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.11)
   (B)   Driving under suspension in violation of other provisions.
      (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking in this municipality whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license
has been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2151.354, 2151.87, 2935.27, 3123.58,
4301.99, 4510.032, 4510.22, or 4510.33, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
      (2)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (B)(1) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under suspension at the
time of the alleged violation of division (B)(1) of this section. The person
charged with a violation of division (B)(1) of this section may offer evidence
to rebut this prima facie evidence.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
driving under suspension and shall be punished as provided in division (B)(3)
(a) or division (B)(3)(b) of this section.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3)(b) of this
section, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. The offender shall be
sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
         (b)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously
was convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of division (B)(1)
of this section, or any combination of two or more violations of division (B)
(1) of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or 4510.16, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, and the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.111)
   (C)   Repeat traffic offender; point system suspension. Any person whose
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privileges are suspended as a repeat traffic offender under R.C. § 4510.037 and
who, during the suspension, operates any motor vehicle upon any public roads
and highways is guilty of driving under a twelve-point suspension, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. The court shall sentence the offender to a
minimum term of three days in jail. No court shall suspend the first three days
of jail time imposed pursuant to this division.
(R.C. § 4510.037(J))
   (D)   Affirmative defense. It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution
brought under this section that the alleged offender drove under suspension,
without a valid permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in
violation of a restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no
other person was reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
§ 71.29 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE OR MOTORCYCLE WITHOUT VALID LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   No person, except those expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public
road or highway or any public or private property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person
has a valid driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a commercial
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506.
      (2)   No person, except a person expressly exempted under R.C. §§
4507.03, 4507.04, and 4507.05, shall operate any motorcycle upon a public road
or highway or any public or private property used by the public for purposes of
vehicular travel or parking in this municipality unless the person has a valid
license as a motorcycle operator that was issued upon application by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. Chapter 4507. The license shall be in
the form of an endorsement, as determined by the Registrar, upon a driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, if the person has a valid license to operate a
motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle, or in the form of a restricted
license as provided in R.C. § 4507.14, if the person does not have a valid
license to operate a motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may be admitted into
evidence as prima facie evidence that the person did not have either a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(1) of this section or a valid license as a motorcycle operator
either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or a restricted license at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A)(2) of this section. The person charged with a violation of
division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section may offer evidence to rebut this
prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or motorcycle without a valid license and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   If the trier of fact finds that the offender never has held a valid
driver’s or commercial driver’s license issued by this state or any other
jurisdiction, or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the
offender, if the offender has never held a valid license as a motorcycle
operator, either in the form of an endorsement upon a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or in the form of a restricted license, except as otherwise
provided in this division, the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or, in a case involving the operation of a motorcycle by the offender, the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license bearing the motorcycle
endorsement or the offender’s restricted license was expired at the time of the
offense, except as otherwise provided in this division, the offense is a minor
misdemeanor. If within three years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
   (D)   The court shall not impose a license suspension for a first violation
of this section or if more than three years have passed since the offender’s
last violation of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (E)   If the offender is sentenced under division (C)(2) of this section, if
within three years of the offense the offender previously was convicted of or
pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4510.12, this section, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and if the offender’s license was
expired for more than six months at the time of the offense, the court may
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial
driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or
nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)
(7).
(R.C. § 4510.12)
§ 71.30 DRIVING UNDER OVI SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege has been suspended under R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191, or 4511.196 or under R.C. § 4510.07 for a conviction of a violation
of a municipal OVI ordinance shall operate any motor vehicle upon the public
roads or highways within this municipality during the period of the suspension.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of driving under OVI
suspension. The court shall sentence the offender under R.C. Chapter 2929,
subject to the differences authorized or required by this section.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first degree. The
court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of three consecutive days. The three-day
term shall be imposed, unless, subject to division (C) of this section, the
court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 30 consecutive days of house
arrest with electronic monitoring. A period of house arrest with electronic
monitoring imposed under this division shall not exceed six months. If the
court imposes a mandatory three-day jail term under this division, the court
may impose a jail term in addition to that term, provided that in no case shall
the cumulative jail term imposed for the offense exceed six months;
         (b)   A fine of not less than $250 and not more than $1,000;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization for 30 days of the
offender’s vehicle and impoundment for 30 days of the identification license
plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment shall be
issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (2)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of this section or one
equivalent offense, driving under OVI suspension is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of ten consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The 10-
day mandatory jail term shall be imposed unless, subject to division (C) of
this section, the court instead imposes a sentence of not less than 90
consecutive days of house arrest with electronic monitoring. The period of
house arrest with electronic monitoring shall not exceed one year;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines provided for in R.C. Chapter 2929, a
fine of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, immobilization of the offender’s
vehicle for 60 days and the impoundment for 60 days of the identification
license plates of that vehicle. The order for immobilization and impoundment
shall be issued and enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.233.
      (3)   If, within six years of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section
or two or more equivalent offenses, driving under OVI suspension is a
misdemeanor. The court shall sentence the offender to all of the following:
         (a)   A mandatory jail term of 30 consecutive days. Notwithstanding
the jail terms provided in R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28, the court may
sentence the offender to a longer jail term of not more than one year. The
court shall not sentence the offender to a term of house arrest with electronic
monitoring in lieu of the mandatory portion of the jail term;
         (b)   Notwithstanding the fines set forth in R.C. Chapter 2929, a fine
of not less than $500 and not more than $2,500;
         (c)   A license suspension under division (E) of this section;
         (d)   If the vehicle the offender was operating at the time of the
offense is registered in the offender’s name, criminal forfeiture to the state
of the offender’s vehicle. The order of criminal forfeiture shall be issued and
enforced in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234. If title to a motor vehicle that
is subject to an order for criminal forfeiture under this division is assigned
or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, the court may fine
the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of the
National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds from any fine so imposed
shall be distributed in accordance with R.C. § 4503.234(C)(2).
   (C)   (1)   No court shall impose an alternative sentence of house arrest
with electronic monitoring under division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section
unless, within 60 days of the date of sentencing, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the jail term imposed, the offender
will not be able to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following
the date of sentencing.
      (2)   An offender sentenced under this section to a period of house
arrest with electronic monitoring shall be permitted work release during that
period.
   (D)   Fifty percent of any fine imposed by a court under division (B)(1),
(B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section shall be deposited into the municipal
Indigent Drivers Alcohol Treatment Fund under the control of that court, as
created by the municipality pursuant to R.C. § 4511.191(H).
   (E)   In addition to or independent of all other penalties provided by law
or ordinance, the trial judge of any court of record or the mayor of a mayor’s
court shall impose on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of this section a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
      (1)   When permitted as specified in R.C. § 4510.021, if the court grants
limited driving privileges during a suspension imposed under this section, the
privileges shall be granted on the additional condition that the offender must
display restricted license plates, issued under R.C. § 4503.231, on the vehicle
driven subject to the privileges, except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (2)   A suspension of a commercial driver’s license under this section
shall be concurrent with any period of suspension or disqualification under
R.C. § 3123.58 or R.C. § 4506.16. No person who is disqualified for life from
holding a commercial driver’s license under R.C. § 4506.16 shall be issued a
driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period for which the
commercial driver’s license was suspended under this section, and no person
whose commercial driver’s license is suspended under this section shall be
issued a driver’s license under R.C. Chapter 4507 during the period of the
suspension.
   (F)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree under this
section for which the offender is sentenced.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a municipal ordinance, law of another state, or
law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to division (A) of
this section;
         (b)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to division (A) of this section.
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 10, or 30
consecutive days that must be imposed under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3)
of this section upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of
this section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under this section, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to any provision
of the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 4510.14)
   (H)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.31 DRIVING UNDER FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LAW SUSPENSION OR CANCELLATION;
DRIVING UNDER A NONPAYMENT OF JUDGMENT SUSPENSION.
   (A)   No person, whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or temporary
instruction permit or nonresident’s operating privilege has been suspended or
canceled pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4509, shall operate any motor vehicle within
this municipality, or knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to
be operated by another person in the municipality, during the period of the
suspension or cancellation, except as specifically authorized by R.C. Chapter
4509. No person shall operate a motor vehicle within this municipality, or
knowingly permit any motor vehicle owned by the person to be operated by
another person in the municipality, during the period in which the person is
required by R.C. § 4509.45 to file and maintain proof of financial
responsibility for a violation of R.C. § 4509.101, unless proof of financial
responsibility is maintained with respect to that vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon a highway or any public
or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel or
parking in this municipality if the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or temporary instruction permit or nonresident operating privilege has
been suspended pursuant to R.C. § 4509.37 or 4509.40 for nonpayment of a
judgment.
   (C)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may be admitted into evidence
as prima facie evidence that the license of the person was under either a
financial responsibility law suspension at the time of the alleged violation of
division (A) of this section or a nonpayment of judgment suspension at the time
of the alleged violation of division (B) of this section. The person charged
with a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section may offer evidence to
rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of driving
under financial responsibility law suspension or cancellation and shall be
punished as provided in this division (D). Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of driving under a nonpayment of judgment suspension and
shall be punished as provided in this division (D).
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2) of this section,
the offense is an unclassified misdemeanor. When the offense is an unclassified
misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of the offense, the offender previously was
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this section, or
any combination of two violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.111 or
4510.16, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the offense is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. § 2929.28 in
an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss arising from an accident
or collision that was the direct and proximate result of the offender’s
operation of the vehicle before, during, or after committing the offense for
which the offender is sentenced under this section.
(R.C. § 4510.16)
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
Statutory reference:
   Immobilization of vehicle; impoundment of license plates; criminal
forfeiture of vehicle, see R.C. § 4510.161
§ 71.32 FAILURE TO REINSTATE LICENSE.
   (A)   No person whose driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, or nonresident’s operating privilege has been
suspended shall operate any motor vehicle upon a public road or highway or any
public or private property after the suspension has expired unless the person
has complied with all license reinstatement requirements imposed by the court,
the bureau of motor vehicles, or another provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
   (B)   Upon the request or motion of the prosecuting authority, a non-
certified copy of the law enforcement automated data system report or a non-
certified copy of a record of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles that shows the
name, date of birth, and social security number of a person charged with a
violation of division (A) of this section may be admitted into evidence as
prima facie evidence that the license of the person had not been reinstated by
the person at the time of the alleged violation of division (A) of this
section. The person charged with a violation of division (A) of this section
may offer evidence to rebut this prima facie evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to reinstate a
license, and shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates this section is guilty of an unclassified misdemeanor. When the
offense is an unclassified misdemeanor, the offender shall be sentenced
pursuant to §
130.18, §
130.99 or R.C. §§ 2929.21 to 2929.28, except that the offender shall not be
sentenced to a jail term; the offender shall not be sentenced to a community
residential sanction pursuant to §
130.99(E) or R.C. § 2929.26; notwithstanding §
130.99(G)(1)(b)1. and R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a), the offender may be fined up to
$1,000; and, notwithstanding §
130.99(F)(1)(c) and R.C. § 2929.27(A)(3), the offender may be ordered pursuant
to §
130.99(F)(3) or R.C. § 2929.27(C) to serve a term of community service of up to
500 hours. The failure of an offender to complete a term of community service
imposed by the court may be punished as indirect criminal contempt under R.C. §
2705.02(A) that may be filed in the underlying case.
      (2)   If, within three years of a violation of division (A) of this
section, the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of two
or more violations of this section, R.C. § 4510.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (3)   In all cases, the court may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary driver’s license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
(R.C. § 4510.21)
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution brought under this
section that the alleged offender drove under suspension, without a valid
permit or driver’s or commercial driver’s license, or in violation of a
restriction because of a substantial emergency, and because no other person was
reasonably available to drive in response to the emergency.
(R.C. § 4510.04)
COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSES
§ 71.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL CONCENTRATION. The concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood,
breath or urine. When expressed as a percentage, it means grams of alcohol per
the following: 100 milliliters of whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma;
210 liters of breath; or 100 milliliters of urine.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE.
      (1)   A license issued in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506 that
authorizes an individual to drive a commercial motor vehicle. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE includes an
ENHANCED COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE.
      (2)   ENHANCED COMMERCIAL DRIVER'S LICENSE means a commercial driver's
license issued in accordance with R.C. §§ 4507.021 and 4506.072 that denotes
citizenship and identity and is approved by the United States Secretary of
Homeland Security or other designated federal agency for purposes of entering
the United States.
   COMMERCIAL DRIVER’S LICENSE INFORMATION SYSTEM. The information system
established pursuant to the requirements of the “Commercial Motor Vehicle
Safety Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App. 2701.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Except when used in R.C. § 4506.25, any motor
vehicle designed or used to transport persons or property that meets any of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight or combined
gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross
vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being
towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle
weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more;
      (3)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is not a Class A
or Class B vehicle, but is designed to transport 16 or more passengers
including the driver;
      (4)   Any school bus with a gross vehicle weight or gross vehicle weight
rating of less than 26,001 pounds that is designed to transport fewer than 16
passengers including the driver;
      (5)   Is transporting hazardous materials for which placarding is
required under 49 C.F.R. part 172, subpart F, as amended; or
      (6)   Any single vehicle or combination of vehicles that is designed to
be operated and to travel on a public street or highway and is considered by
the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration to be a commercial motor
vehicle, including but not limited to a motorized crane, a vehicle whose
function is to pump cement, a rig for drilling wells, and a portable crane.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   Any substance classified as a controlled substance under the
“Controlled Substances Act”, 80 Stat. 1242 (1970), 21 U.S.C. § 802(6), as
amended;
      (2)   Any substance included in Schedules I through V of 21 C.F.R. part
1308, as amended;
      (3)   Any drug of abuse.
   CONVICTION. An unvacated adjudication of guilt or a determination that a
person has violated or failed to comply with the law in a court of original
jurisdiction or an authorized administrative tribunal, an unvacated forfeiture
of bail or collateral deposited to secure the person’s appearance in court, a
plea of guilty or nolo contendere accepted by the court, the payment of a fine
or court cost, or violation of a condition of release without bail, regardless
of whether or not the penalty is rebated, suspended or probated.
   DISQUALIFICATION. Means any of the following:
      (1)   The suspension, revocation, or cancellation of a person’s
privileges to operate a commercial motor vehicle;
      (2)   Any withdrawal of a person’s privileges to operate a commercial
motor vehicle as the result of a violation of state or local law relating to
motor vehicle traffic control other than parking, vehicle weight, or vehicle
defect violations;
      (3)   A determination by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
that a person is not qualified to operate a commercial motor vehicle under 49
C.F.R. § 391.
   DOMICILED. Having a true, fixed, principal, and permanent residence to which
an individual intends to return.
   DOWNGRADE. Any of the following, as applicable:
      (1)   A change in the commercial driver’s license, or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit, holder’s self-certified status as
described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1);
      (2)   A change to a lesser class of vehicle;
      (3)   Removal of commercial driver’s license privileges from the
individual’s driver’s license.
   DRIVE. To drive, operate or be in physical control of a motor vehicle.
   DRIVER. Any person who drives, operates or is in physical control of a
commercial motor vehicle or is required to have a commercial driver’s license.
   DRIVER’S LICENSE. A license issued by the Bureau of Motor Vehicles that
authorizes an individual to drive.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Any controlled substance, dangerous drug as defined in R.C. §
4729.01, harmful intoxicant as defined in R.C. § 2925.01 or over-the-counter
medication that, when taken in quantities exceeding the recommended dosage, can
result in impairment of judgment or reflexes.
   ELECTRONIC DEVICE. Includes a cellular telephone, a personal digital
assistant, a pager, a computer, and any other device used to input, write,
send, receive, or read text.
   ELIGIBLE UNIT OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. A village, township, or county that has a
population of not more than 3,000 persons according to the most recent federal
census.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, including the federal government, any state, and a
political subdivision of any state, that owns or leases a commercial motor
vehicle or assigns a person to drive such a motor vehicle.
   ENDORSEMENT. An authorization on a person’s commercial driver’s license that
is required to permit the person to operate a specified type of commercial
motor vehicle.
   FARM TRUCK. A truck controlled and operated by a farmer for use in the
transportation to or from a farm, for a distance of not more than 150 miles, of
products of the farm, including livestock and its products, poultry and its
products, floricultural and horticultural products, and in the transportation
to the farm, from a distance of not more than 150 miles, of supplies for the
farm, including tile, fence and every other thing or commodity used in
agricultural, floricultural, horticultural, livestock, and poultry production,
and livestock, poultry, and other animals and things used for breeding,
feeding, or other purposes connected with the operation of the farm, when the
truck is operated in accordance with this definition and is not used in the
operations of a motor carrier, as defined in R.C. § 4923.01.
   FATALITY. The death of a person as the result of a motor vehicle accident
occurring not more than 365 days prior to the date of death.
   FELONY. Any offense under federal or state law that is punishable by death
or imprisonment for a term exceeding one year and includes any offense
specifically classified as a felony under the law of this state, regardless of
the penalty that may be imposed.
   FOREIGN JURISDICTION. Any jurisdiction other than a state.
   GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. The value specified by the manufacturer as the
maximum loaded weight of a single or a combination vehicle. The gross vehicle
weight rating of a combination vehicle is the gross vehicle weight rating of
the power unit plus the gross vehicle weight rating of each towed unit.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material that has been designated as hazardous
under 49 U.S.C. § 5103 and is required to be placarded under 49 C.F.R. part
172, subpart F or any quantity of a material listed as a select agent or toxin
in 42 C.F.R. part 73, as amended.
   IMMINENT HAZARD. The existence of a condition that presents a substantial
likelihood that death, serious illness, severe personal injury, or a
substantial endangerment to health, property, or the environment may occur
before the reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding begun
to lessen the risk of death, illness, injury, or endangerment.
   MEDICAL VARIANCE. One of the following received by a driver from the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration that allows the driver to be issued a
medical certificate:
      (1)   An exemption letter permitting operation of a commercial motor
vehicle under 49 C.F.R. part 381, subpart C or 49 C.F.R. § 391.64;
      (2)   A skill performance evaluation certificate permitting operation of
a commercial motor vehicle pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 391.49.
   MOBILE TELEPHONE. A mobile communication device that falls under or uses any
commercial mobile radio service as defined in 47 C.F.R. part 20, except that
mobile telephone does not include two-way or citizens band radio services.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power used on highways, except that such term
does not include a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer operated
exclusively on a rail.
   OUT-OF-SERVICE ORDER. A declaration by an authorized enforcement officer of
a federal, state, local, Canadian, or Mexican jurisdiction declaring that the
driver, commercial motor vehicle, or commercial motor carrier operation is out
of service as defined in 49 C.F.R. § 390.5.
   PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
   PORTABLE TANK. A liquid or gaseous packaging designed primarily to be loaded
onto or temporarily attached to a vehicle and equipped with skids, mountings,
or accessories to facilitate handling of the tank by mechanical means.
   PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01(E)(1) and
(E)(3).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Includes every vehicle that is defined as a
recreational vehicle in R.C. § 4501.01 and is used exclusively for purposes
other than engaging in business for profit.
   RESIDENCE. Any person’s residence determined in accordance with standards
prescribed in the rules adopted by the Registrar.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SERIOUS TRAFFIC VIOLATION. Any of the following:
      (1)   A conviction arising from a single charge of operating a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of any provision of R.C. § 4506.03;
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (2)(b) of this definition, a
violation while operating a commercial motor vehicle of a law of this state, or
any municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or any other
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, prohibiting either of the following:
            1.   Texting while driving;
            2.   Using a handheld mobile telephone.
         (b)   It is not a serious traffic violation if the person was texting
or using a handheld mobile telephone to contact law enforcement or other
emergency services.
      (3)   A conviction arising from the operation of any motor vehicle that
involves any of the following:
         (a)   A single charge of any speed in excess of the posted speed limit
by 15 miles per hour or more;
         (b)   Violations of R.C. § 4511.20 or R.C. § 4511.201 or any
substantially equivalent ordinance or resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state;
         (c)   Violation of a law of this state or an ordinance or resolution
relating to traffic control, other than a parking violation, or of any
substantially equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of
another state, that results in a fatal accident;
         (d)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license with the proper class or endorsement for the specific vehicle
group being operated or for the passengers or type of cargo being transported;
         (e)   Violation of R.C. § 4506.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance or county or township resolution, or of any substantially
equivalent law of another state or political subdivision of another state, that
involves the operation of a commercial motor vehicle without a valid commercial
driver’s license being in the person’s possession;
         (f)   Violation of R.C. § 4511.33 or R.C. § 4511.34, or any municipal
ordinance or county or township resolution substantially equivalent to either
of those sections, or any substantially equivalent law of another state or
political subdivision of another state;
         (g)   Violation of any other law of this state, any law of another
state, or any ordinance or resolution of a political subdivision of this state
or another state that meets both of the following requirements:
            1.   It relates to traffic control, other than a parking violation;
            2.   It is determined to be a serious traffic violation by the
United States Secretary of Transportation and is designated by the director as
such by rule.
   STATE. A state of the United States and includes the District of Columbia.
   TANK VEHICLE. Any commercial motor vehicle that is designed to transport any
liquid or gaseous materials within a tank or tanks that are either permanently
or temporarily attached to the vehicle or its chassis and have an individual
rated capacity of more than 119 gallons and an aggregate rated capacity of
1,000 gallons or more. The term does not include a commercial motor vehicle
transporting an empty storage container tank that is not designed for
transportation, has a rated capacity of 1,000 gallons or more, and is
temporarily attached to a flatbed trailer.
   TESTER. Means a person or entity acting pursuant to a valid agreement
entered into pursuant to R.C. § 4506.09(B).
   TEXTING. Manually entering alphanumeric text into, or reading text from, an
electronic device. Texting includes short message service (SMS), e-mail,
instant messaging, a command or request to access a world wide web page,
pressing more than a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone, or engaging in any other form of
electronic text retrieval or entry, for present or future communication.
Texting does not include the following:
      (1)   Using voice commands to initiate, receive, or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone;
      (2)   Inputting, selecting, or reading information on a global
positioning system or navigation system;
      (3)   Pressing a single button to initiate or terminate a voice
communication using a mobile telephone; or
      (4)   Using, for a purpose that is not otherwise prohibited by law, a
device capable of performing multiple functions, such as a fleet management
system, a dispatching device, a mobile telephone, a citizens band radio, or a
music player.
   TEXTING WHILE DRIVING. Texting while operating a commercial motor vehicle,
with the motor running, including while temporarily stationary because of
traffic, a traffic control device, or other momentary delays. Texting while
driving does not include operating a commercial motor vehicle with or without
the motor running when the driver has moved the vehicle to the side of, or off,
a highway and is stopped in a location where the vehicle can safely remain
stationary.
   UNITED STATES. The 50 states and the District of Columbia.
   UPGRADE. A change in the class of vehicles, endorsements, or self-certified
status as described in R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) that expands the ability of a
current commercial driver’s license holder to operate commercial motor vehicles
under this chapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
   USE OF A HANDHELD MOBILE TELEPHONE. Means:
      (1)   Using at least one hand to hold a mobile telephone to conduct a
voice communication;
      (2)   Dialing or answering a mobile telephone by pressing more than a
single button; or
      (3)   Reaching for a mobile telephone in a manner that requires a driver
to maneuver so that the driver is no longer in a seated driving position, or
restrained by a seat belt that is installed in accordance with 49 C.F.R. §
393.93 and adjusted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer’s instructions.
   VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4506.01)
§ 71.46 USE OF ACTUAL GROSS WEIGHT IN LIEU OF RATING.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the actual gross weight of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles may be used in lieu of a gross vehicle weight rating to
determine whether a vehicle or combination of vehicles qualifies as a
commercial motor vehicle if the gross vehicle weight rating specified by the
manufacturer for the vehicle of combination of vehicles is not determinable, or
if the manufacturer of the vehicle has not specified a gross vehicle weight
rating.
(R.C. § 4506.011)
§ 71.47 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having in the person’s
possession or otherwise under the person’s control more than one valid driver’s
license issued by this state, any other state, or by a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality
in violation of an out-of-service order while the person’s driving privilege is
suspended, revoked, or cancelled, or while the person is subject to
disqualification;
      (3)   Drive a motor vehicle on a highway in the municipality under the
authority of a commercial driver’s license issued by another state or a foreign
jurisdiction, after having been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer;
      (4)    Knowingly give false information in any application or
certification required by R.C. § 4506.07;
      (5)   Knowingly provide false statements or engage in any fraudulent act
related to testing for a commercial driver's license as required in R.C. §
4506.09.
   (B)   The municipality shall give every conviction occurring out of this
state and notice of which was received by the state Department of Public Safety
after December 31, 1989, full faith and credit and treat it for sanctioning
purposes under this chapter as though the conviction had occurred in this
state.
(R.C. § 4506.04(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall drive any commercial motor vehicle for which an
endorsement is required under R.C. § 4506.12 unless the proper endorsement
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit. No person shall drive a commercial motor
vehicle in violation of a restriction established under R.C. § 4506.12 that
appears on the person’s commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s
license temporary instruction permit.
(R.C. § 4506.12(I))
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
(R.C. § 4506.04(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
falsification, a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition, the provisions
of R.C. § 4507.19 apply.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   The offenses established under division (C) of this section are
strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of
these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply
that any other offense for which there is no specified degree of culpability,
whether in this section or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4506.12(J))
§ 71.48 PREREQUISITES TO OPERATION OF COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) or (C) of this section, the
following shall apply:
      (1)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in
this state unless the person holds, and has in the person’s possession, any of
the following:
         (a)   A valid commercial driver’s license with proper endorsements for
the motor vehicle being driven, issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or by
another jurisdiction recognized by this state;
         (b)   A valid examiner’s commercial driving permit issued under R.C. §
4506.13;
         (c)   A valid restricted commercial driver’s license and waiver for
farm-related service industries issued under R.C. § 4506.24;
         (d)   A valid commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit
issued by the Registrar, provided that the person is accompanied by an
authorized state driver’s license examiner or tester or a person who has been
issued and has in the person’s immediate possession a current, valid commercial
driver’s license and who meets the requirements of R.C. § 4506.06(B).
      (2)   No person’s commercial driver’s license temporary instruction
permit shall be upgraded, and no commercial driver’s license shall be upgraded,
renewed, or issued to a person until the person surrenders to the registrar of
motor vehicles all valid licenses and permits issued to the person by this
state or by another jurisdiction recognized by this state. If the license or
permit was issued by any other state or another jurisdiction recognized by this
state, the Registrar shall report the surrender of a license or permit to the
issuing authority, together with information that a license or permit is now
issued in this state. The Registrar shall destroy any such license or permit
that is not returned to the issuing authority.
      (3)   No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or
longer shall drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a
commercial driver’s license issued in another jurisdiction.
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) of this section applies to any qualified
person when engaged in the operation of any of the following:
      (1)   A farm truck;
      (2)   Fire equipment for a fire department, volunteer or nonvolunteer
fire company, fire district, joint fire district, or the State Fire Marshal;
      (3)   A public safety vehicle used to provide transportation or emergency
medical service for ill or injured persons;
      (4)   A recreational vehicle;
      (5)   A commercial motor vehicle within the boundaries of an eligible
unit of local government, if the person is employed by the eligible unit of
local government and is operating the commercial motor vehicle for the purpose
of removing snow or ice from a roadway by plowing, sanding, or salting, but
only if either the employee who holds a commercial driver’s license issued
under R.C. Chapter 4506 and ordinarily operates a commercial motor vehicle for
these purposes is unable to operate the vehicle, or the employing eligible unit
of local government determines that a snow or ice emergency exists that
requires additional assistance;
      (6)   A vehicle operated for military purposes by any member or uniformed
employee of the armed forces of the United States or their reserve components,
including the Ohio National Guard. This exception does not apply to United
States reserve technicians;
      (7)   A commercial motor vehicle that is operated for nonbusiness
purposes. “Operated for nonbusiness purposes” means that the commercial motor
vehicle is not used in commerce as “commerce” is defined in 49 C.F.R. § 383.5,
as amended, and is not regulated by the Public Utilities Commission pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 4905, 4921, or 4923;
      (8)   A motor vehicle that is designed primarily for the transportation
of goods and not persons, while that motor vehicle is being used for the
occasional transportation of personal property by individuals not for
compensation and not in the furtherance of a commercial enterprise;
      (9)   A police SWAT team vehicle;
      (10)   A police vehicle used to transport prisoners.
   (C)   Nothing contained in division (B)(5) of this section shall be
construed as preempting or superseding any law, rule or regulation of this
state concerning the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.
(R.C. § 4506.03(A) - (C))
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person may drive a
commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this municipality if all of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person has a valid commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit issued by any state or
jurisdiction in accordance with the minimum standards adopted by the Federal
Motor Carrier Safety Administration under the “Commercial Motor Vehicle Safety
Act of 1986”, 100 Stat. 3207-171, 49 U.S.C. App., for issuance of commercial
driver’s licenses;
      (2)   The person’s commercial driver’s license or temporary instruction
permit is not suspended, revoked, or canceled, and the person has the
appropriate endorsements for the vehicle that is being driven;
      (3)   The person is not disqualified from driving a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (4)   The person is not subject to an out-of-service order;
      (5)   The person is medically certified as physically qualified to
operate a commercial motor vehicle in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4506.
         (a)   A person who submitted a medical examiner’s certificate to the
Registrar in accordance with R.C. § 4506.10(A)(1) and whose medical
certification information is maintained in the commercial driver’s license
information system is not required to have the medical examiner’s certificate
in the person’s possession when on duty.
         (b)   A person whose medical certification information is not
maintained in the commercial driver’s license information system shall have in
the person’s possession when on duty the original or a copy of the current
medical examiner’s certificate that was submitted to the Registrar. However,
the person may operate a commercial motor vehicle with such proof of medical
certification for not more than 15 days after the date the current medical
examiner’s certificate was issued to the person.
         (c)   A person who has a medical variance shall have in the person’s
possession the original or copy of the medical variance documentation at all
times while on duty.
   (E)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle on a highway in this
municipality if the person does not meet the conditions specified in division
(D) of this section.
   (F)   Except as set forth in 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.62, 391.67,
and 391.68, no person holding a commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit or a commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter
4506 may drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce until the
person is at least 21 years of age.
(R.C. § 4506.05(A) - (C))
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under divisions (D), (E) and (F) of this
section are strict liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.03(D), 4506.05(D))
§ 71.49 PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION TO OPERATE COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person who holds a valid commercial driver’s license shall drive a
commercial motor vehicle unless the person is physically qualified to do so.
      (1)   Any person applying for a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit, the renewal or upgrade of a
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit, or the transfer of a commercial driver’s license from out
of state shall self-certify to the Registrar for purposes of 49 C.F.R. § 383.71
one of the following in regard to the applicant’s operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, as applicable:
         (a)   1.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in interstate or foreign commerce and is subject to
and meets the requirements under 49 C.F.R. part 391, the applicant shall self-
certify that the applicant is non-excepted interstate and shall provide the
Registrar with the original or a copy of a medical examiner’s certificate and
each subsequently issued medical examiner’s certificate prepared by a qualified
medical examiner to maintain a medically certified status on the applicant’s
commercial driver licensing system driver record;
            2.   If the applicant operates or expects to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in interstate commerce, but engages in transportation or
operations excepted under 49 C.F.R. §§ 390.3(f), 391.2, 391.68, or 398.3 from
all or parts of the qualification requirements of 49 C.F.R. part 391, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted interstate and is
not required to obtain a medical examiner’s certificate;
         (b)   1.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and
is subject to state driver qualification requirements, the applicant shall
self-certify that the applicant is non-excepted intrastate;
            2.   If the applicant operates only in intrastate commerce and is
excepted from all or parts of the state driver qualification requirements, the
applicant shall self-certify that the applicant is excepted intrastate.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the expiration date on a person’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit,
every commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit holder shall provide the Registrar with the certification
required by this section on or after January 30, 2012, but prior to January 30,
2014.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.10(A), (E))
§ 71.50 CRIMINAL OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person who holds a commercial driver’s license or commercial
driver’s license temporary instruction permit or who operates a motor vehicle
for which a commercial driver’s license or permit is required shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having a measurable or
detectable amount of alcohol or of a controlled substance in the person’s
blood, breath, or urine;
      (2)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of 0.04% or more by whole blood or breath;
      (3)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .048% or more by blood serum or blood plasma;
      (4)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle while having an alcohol
concentration of .056% or more by urine;
      (5)   Drive a motor vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance;
      (6)   Drive a motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a municipal
OVI ordinance as defined in R.C. § 4511.181;
      (7)   Use a vehicle in the commission of a felony;
      (8)   Refuse to submit to a test under R.C. § 4506.17 or R.C. § 4511.191,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (9)   Operate a commercial motor vehicle while the person’s commercial
driver’s license or permit or other commercial driving privileges are revoked,
suspended, cancelled, or disqualified;
      (10)   Cause a fatality through the negligent operation of a commercial
motor vehicle, including but not limited to the offenses of aggravated
vehicular homicide, vehicular homicide, and vehicular manslaughter;
      (11)   Fail to stop after an accident in violation of R.C. §§ 4549.02 to
4549.03, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (12)   Drive a commercial motor vehicle in violation of any provision of
R.C. §§ 4511.61 through 4511.63 or any federal or local law or ordinance
pertaining to railroad-highway grade crossings;
      (13)    Use a motor vehicle in the commission of a felony involving the
manufacture, distribution, or dispensing of a controlled substance as defined
in R.C. § 3719.01 or the possession with intent to manufacture, distribute, or
dispense a controlled substance;
      (14)   Use a commercial motor vehicle in the commission of a violation of
R.C. § 2905.32 or any other substantially equivalent offense established under
federal law or the laws of another state.
(R.C. § 4506.15(A))
   (B)   No person shall refuse to immediately surrender the person’s
commercial driver’s license or permit to a peace officer when required to do so
by R.C. § 4506.17.
(R.C. § 4506.17(H))
   (C)   (1)   Within the jurisdictional limits of the appointing authority,
any peace officer shall stop and detain any person found violating division (A)
of this section without obtaining a warrant. When there is reasonable ground to
believe that a violation of division (A) of this section has been committed and
a test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood plasma or blood serum,
breath or urine is necessary, the peace officer shall take the person to an
appropriate place for testing. If a person refuses to submit to a test after
being warned as provided in R.C. § 4506.17(C), or submits to a test that
discloses the presence of a controlled substance or an alcohol concentration of
0.04% or more by whole blood or breath, an alcohol concentration of .048% or
more by blood serum or blood plasma, or an alcohol concentration of .056% or
more by urine, the peace officer shall require that the person immediately
surrender the person’s commercial driver’s license to the peace officer.
      (2)   As used in this division (C), JURISDICTIONAL LIMITS means the
limits within which a peace officer may arrest and detain a person without a
warrant under R.C. § 2935.03, except that the Superintendent and the troopers
of the State Highway Patrol may stop and detain, without warrant, any person
who, in the presence of the Superintendent or any trooper, is engaged in a
violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or R.C. Chapter 4506.
(R.C. § 4506.23)
   (D)    Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(B), 4506.17(N))
   (E)   The offenses established under division (A) of this section are strict
liability offenses and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of these
offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4506.15(C))
Statutory reference:
   Alcohol or controlled substance testing, disqualification of drivers, see
R.C. § 4506.17
   Disqualification of drivers for violations, see R.C. § 4506.16
§ 71.51 APPLICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of 49 C.F.R. part 383, subpart C (Notification
Requirements and Employer Responsibilities), as amended, shall apply to all
commercial drivers or persons who apply for employment as commercial drivers.
No person shall fail to make a report to the person’s employer as required by
this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4506.19)
§ 71.52 EMPLOYMENT OF DRIVERS OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Each employer shall require every applicant for employment as a driver
of a commercial vehicle to provide the applicant’s employment history for the
ten years preceding the date the employment application is submitted to the
prospective employer. The following information shall be submitted:
      (1)   A list of the names and addresses of the applicant’s previous
employers for which the applicant was the operator of a commercial motor
vehicle;
      (2)   The dates the applicant was employed by these employers;
      (3)   The reason for leaving each of these employers.
   (B)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize any driver employed by
the employer to drive a commercial motor vehicle during any period in which any
of the following apply:
      (1)   The driver’s commercial driver’s license is suspended, revoked, or
cancelled by any state or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (2)   The driver has lost the privilege to drive, or currently is
disqualified from driving, a commercial motor vehicle in any state or foreign
jurisdiction;
      (3)   The driver, the commercial motor vehicle the driver is driving, or
the motor carrier operation is subject to an out-of-service order in any state
or a foreign jurisdiction;
      (4)   The driver has more than one driver’s license.
   (C)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4506.15.
   (D)   No employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a
commercial motor vehicle if the driver does not hold a valid, current
commercial driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary
instruction permit bearing the proper class or endorsements for the vehicle. No
employer shall knowingly permit or authorize a driver to operate a commercial
motor vehicle in violation of the restrictions on the driver’s commercial
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license temporary instruction permit.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B) or (D) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 4506.20)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. §§ 4506.99, 4507.99)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
72.001   Lanes of travel upon roadways
   
72.002   Driving through safety zone
   
72.003   Vehicles traveling in opposite directions
   
72.004   Rules governing overtaking and passing of vehicles
   
72.005   Permission to overtake and pass on the right
   
72.006   Driving to left of center line
   
72.007   Prohibition against driving upon left side of roadway
   
72.008   Hazardous zones
   
72.009   One-way highways and rotary traffic islands
   
72.010   Rules for driving in marked lanes
   
72.011   Space between moving vehicles
   
72.012   Divided roadways
   
72.013   Rules for turns at intersections
   
72.014   U-turns and turning in roadway prohibited
   
72.015   Starting and backing vehicles
   
72.016   Turn and stop signals
   
72.017   Hand and arm signals
   
72.018   Right turns on red prohibited
   
72.019   Boarding or leaving stopped vehicle
   
72.020   Failure to control; weaving course
Right-of-Way
   
72.030   Right-of-way at intersections
   
72.031   Right-of-way when turning left
   
72.032   Right-of-way at through highways; stop signs; yield signs
   
72.033   Stop at sidewalk area; stop signs on private roads and driveways
   
72.034   Right-of-way on public highway
   
72.035   Pedestrian on sidewalk has right-of-way
   
72.036   Right-of-way of public safety vehicles
   
72.037   Funeral procession has right-of-way
   
72.038   Pedestrians yield right-of-way to public safety vehicle
   
72.039   Pedestrian on crosswalk has right-of-way
   
72.040   Right-of-way yielded to blind person
   
72.041   Right-of-way yielded by pedestrian
Pedestrians
   
72.055   Pedestrian movement in crosswalks
   
72.056   Pedestrian walking along highway
   
72.057   Prohibition against soliciting rides; riding on outside of vehicle
   
72.058   Pedestrian on bridge or railroad crossing
   
72.059   Persons operating motorized wheelchairs
   
72.060   Intoxicated or drugged pedestrian hazard on highway
   
72.061   Operation of electric personal assistive mobility devices
   
72.062   Operation of personal delivery device on sidewalks and crosswalks
   
72.063   Low-speed micromobility devices
   
72.064   Littering on roadways
Grade Crossings
   
72.075   Stop signs at grade crossings
   
72.076   Driving vehicle across railroad grade crossing
   
72.077   Vehicles required to stop at grade crossings
   
72.078   Slow-moving vehicles or equipment crossing railroad tracks
School Buses
   
72.090   Regulations concerning school buses
   
72.091   Violation of regulations; report; investigation; citation; warning
   
72.092   Restrictions on the operation of school buses
   
72.093   School bus inspection
   
72.094   School bus not used for school purposes
   
72.095   Licensing by Department of Public Safety
   
72.096   Registration and identification of school buses
   
72.097   School bus marking
   
72.098   Flashing light signal lamps
   
72.099   Occupant restraining device for operator
Prohibitions
   
72.115   Obstruction and interference affecting view and control of driver
   
72.116   Occupying travel trailer, fifth wheel vehicle or manufactured or
mobile home while in motion
   
72.117   Driving upon closed highway prohibited
   
72.118   Driving upon sidewalk area or paths exclusively for bicycles
   
72.119   Obstructing passage of other vehicles
   
72.120   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited; approaching
stationary public safety vehicle and certain other vehicles with caution
   
72.121   Driving over unprotected fire hose
   
72.122   Placing injurious material on highway or depositing litter from motor
vehicle
   
72.123   Transporting child not in child-restraint system prohibited
   
72.124   Occupant restraining devices
   
72.125   Use of engine brakes prohibited
   
72.126   Operating motor vehicle while wearing earphones or earplugs
   
72.127   Chauffeured limousines and livery services
   
72.128   Operating traction engine upon improved highway
   
72.129   Cracking exhaust noises; peeling out
   
72.130   Shortcutting across private property
   
72.131   Texting while driving prohibited
   
72.132   Use of electronic wireless communication devices by minors or
probationary drivers while driving prohibited
   
72.133   Trucks prohibited
   
72.134   Unnecessary noises
   
72.135   Operation of radios or other sound making devices or instruments in
vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.001 LANES OF TRAVEL UPON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width, a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction, or when making a left turn under the rules governing such movements;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   When driving upon a roadway divided into three or more marked lanes
for traffic under the rules applicable thereon;
      (4)   When driving upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for
one-way traffic;
      (5)   When otherwise directed by a police officer or traffic-control
device.
   (B)   (1)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the
prevailing and lawful speed of traffic at the time and place and under the
conditions then existing shall be driven in the right- hand lane then available
for traffic, and far enough to the right to allow passing by faster vehicles if
such passing is safe and reasonable, except under any of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction;
         (b)   When preparing for a left turn;
         (c)   When the driver must necessarily drive in a lane other than the
right-hand lane to continue on the driver’s intended route.
      (2)   Nothing in division (B)(1) of this section requires a driver of a
slower vehicle to compromise the driver’s safety to allow overtaking by a
faster vehicle.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two- way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the center line of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left of the center of
the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use the lanes, or
except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. This division shall
not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the center line in making a
left turn into or from an alley, private road, or driveway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.25)
§ 72.002 DRIVING THROUGH SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven through or within a safety
zone.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.60)
§ 72.003 VEHICLES TRAVELING IN OPPOSITE DIRECTIONS.
   (A)   Operators of vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass
each other to the right, and upon roadways having width for not more than one
line of traffic in each direction, each operator shall give to the other one-
half of the main traveled portion of the roadway or as nearly one-half as is
reasonably possible.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.26)
§ 72.004 RULES GOVERNING OVERTAKING AND PASSING OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following rules govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction:
      (1)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall, except as provided in division (A)(3) of this
section, signal to the vehicle to be overtaken, shall pass to the left thereof
at a safe distance, and shall not again drive to the right side of the roadway
until safely clear of the overtaken vehicle. When a motor vehicle overtakes and
passes a bicycle or electric bicycle, three feet or greater is considered a
safe passing distance.
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
operator of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle at the latter’s audible signal, and the operator shall not
increase the speed of the operator’s vehicle until completely passed by the
overtaking vehicle.
      (3)   The operator of a vehicle overtaking and passing another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction on a divided highway as defined in R.C. §
4511.35, a limited access highway as defined in R.C. § 5511.02, or a highway
with four or more traffic lanes is not required to signal audibly to the
vehicle being overtaken and passed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.27)
§ 72.005 PERMISSION TO OVERTAKE AND PASS ON THE RIGHT.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass on the right of another
vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
or
      (2)   Upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement of sufficient width for
two or more lines of vehicles moving lawfully in the direction being traveled
by the overtaking vehicle.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle only
under conditions permitting the movement in safety. The movement shall not be
made by driving off the roadway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.28)
§ 72.006 DRIVING TO LEFT OF CENTER LINE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left of the center of the roadway in
overtaking and passing traffic proceeding in the same direction, unless the
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit the overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the safe operation of any traffic approaching from the
opposite direction or any traffic overtaken. In every event, the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable, and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for the
traffic approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.29)
§ 72.007 PROHIBITION AGAINST DRIVING UPON LEFT SIDE OF ROADWAY.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven upon the left side of the roadway under the
following conditions:
      (1)   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway, where the operator’s view is obstructed within such a distance as to
create a hazard in the event traffic might approach from the opposite
direction;
      (2)   When the view is obstructed upon approaching within 100 feet of any
bridge, viaduct, or tunnel; or
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing.
   (B)   This section does not apply to vehicles upon a one-way roadway, upon a
roadway where traffic is lawfully directed to be driven to the left side, or
under the conditions described in R.C. § 4511.25(A)(2) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.30)
§ 72.008 HAZARDOUS ZONES.
   (A)   The Department of Transportation may determine those portions of any
state highway where overtaking and passing other traffic or driving to the left
of the center or center line of the roadway would be especially hazardous, and
may, by appropriate signs or markings on the highway, indicate the beginning
and end of such zones. When signs or markings are in place and clearly visible,
every operator of a vehicle shall obey the directions of the signs or markings,
notwithstanding the distances set out in R.C. § 4511.30.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply when all of the following
apply:
      (1)   The slower vehicle is proceeding at less than half the speed of the
speed limit applicable to that location.
      (2)   The faster vehicle is capable of overtaking and passing the slower
vehicle without exceeding the speed limit.
      (3)   There is sufficient clear sight distance to the left of the center
or center line of the roadway to meet the overtaking and passing provisions of
R.C. § 4511.29, considering the speed of the slower vehicle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.31)
§ 72.009 ONE-WAY HIGHWAYS AND ROTARY TRAFFIC ISLANDS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a roadway designated and posted with signs for one-way
traffic, a vehicle shall be driven only in the direction designated.
      (2)   A vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island shall be driven
only to the right of the rotary traffic island.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.32)
§ 72.010 RULES FOR DRIVING IN MARKED LANES.
   (A)   Whenever any roadway has been divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for traffic, or wherever within the municipality traffic is lawfully
moving in two or more substantially continuous lines in the same direction, the
following rules apply:
      (1)   A vehicle shall be driven, as nearly as is practicable, entirely
within a single lane or line of traffic and shall not be moved from the lane or
line until the driver has first ascertained that the movement can be made with
safety.
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes and provides for
the two-way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the center
lane, except when overtaking and passing another vehicle where the roadway is
clearly visible and the center lane is clear of traffic within a safe distance,
or when preparing for a left turn, or where the center lane is at the time
allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the direction the vehicle is
proceeding, and is posted with signs to give notice of such allocation.
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing specified traffic to use a
designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction, regardless of the center of the roadway, or restricting
the use of a particular lane to only buses during certain hours or during all
hours, and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of such signs.
      (4)   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway, and drivers of vehicles shall obey
the directions of every such device.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.33)
§ 72.011 SPACE BETWEEN MOVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle
more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of
the vehicle and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      (2)   The driver of any truck, or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle,
when traveling upon a roadway outside a business or residence district, shall
maintain a sufficient space, whenever conditions permit, between the vehicle
and another vehicle ahead so an overtaking motor vehicle may enter and occupy
the space without danger. This division does not prevent overtaking and passing
nor does it apply to any lane specially designated for use by trucks.
      (3)   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade shall maintain a sufficient
space between the vehicles so an overtaking vehicle may enter and occupy the
space without danger. This division shall not apply to funeral processions.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.34)
§ 72.012 DIVIDED ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Whenever any highway has been divided into two roadways by an
intervening space, or by a physical barrier, or a clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway, and no vehicle shall be driven over,
across, or within any dividing space, barrier, or section, except through an
opening, crossover, or intersection established by public authority. This
section does not prohibit the occupancy of the dividing space, barrier, or
section for the purpose of an emergency stop, or in compliance with an order of
a police officer.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.35)
§ 72.013 RULES FOR TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall be
governed by the following rules:
      (1)   Approach for a right turn and a right turn shall be made as close
as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   At any intersection where traffic is permitted to move in both
directions on each roadway entering the intersection, an approach for a left
turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest the
center line thereof and by passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn
shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line
of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable, the left turn shall be made
in that portion of the intersection to the left of the center of the
intersection.
      (3)   At any intersection where traffic is restricted to one direction on
one or more of the roadways, the driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at
any such intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand
lane lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of the
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection, as nearly as practicable, in the left hand lane
of the roadway being entered lawfully available to traffic moving in that lane.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities may cause
markers, buttons, or signs to be placed within or adjacent to intersections,
and thereby require and direct that a different course from that specified in
this section be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when
markers, buttons, or signs are so placed, no operator of a vehicle shall turn
the vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by the
markers, buttons, or signs.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.36)
§ 72.014 U-TURNS AND TURNING IN ROADWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.13 and division (B) of this section,
no vehicle shall be turned so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any
curve, or upon the approach to or near the crest of a grade, if such vehicle
cannot be seen within 500 feet by the driver of any other vehicle approaching
from either direction.
   (B)   The driver of an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, may turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction. This division applies only when the emergency vehicle or
public safety vehicle is responding to an emergency call, is equipped with and
displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible under
normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of the
vehicle, and when the driver of the vehicle is giving an audible signal by
siren, exhaust whistle, or bell. This division does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.37)
§ 72.015 STARTING AND BACKING VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing, or
parked until the movement can be made with reasonable safety.
      (2)   Before backing, operators of vehicles shall give ample warning, and
while backing they shall exercise vigilance not to injure person or property on
the street or highway.
      (3)   No person shall back a motor vehicle on a freeway, except:
         (a)   In a rest area;
         (b)   In the performance of public works or official duties;
         (c)   As a result of an emergency caused by an accident or breakdown
of a motor vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.38)
§ 72.016 TURN AND STOP SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle or move right or left upon a
highway unless and until the person has exercised due care to ascertain that
the movement can be made with reasonable safety, nor without giving an
appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter provided.
      (2)   When required, a signal of intention to turn or move right or left
shall be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by
the vehicle before turning, except that in the case of a person operating a
bicycle or electric bicycle, the signal shall be made not less than one time
but is not required to be continuous. A bicycle or electric bicycle operator is
not required to make a signal if the bicycle is in a designated turn lane, and
a signal shall not be given when the operator’s hands are needed for the safe
operation of the bicycle or electric bicycle.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear, when there is opportunity to
give a signal.
      (4)   Any stop or turn signal required by this section shall be given
either by means of the hand and arm, or by signal lights that clearly indicate
to both approaching and following traffic the intention to turn or move right
or left, except that any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped
with, and the required signal shall be given by, signal lights when the
distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the left outside
limit of the body, cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when
the distance from the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit
of the body or load thereof exceeds 14 feet, whether a single vehicle or a
combination of vehicles.
      (5)   The signal lights required by this section shall not be flashed on
one side only on a disabled vehicle, flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal
to operators of other vehicles approaching from the rear, nor be flashed on one
side only of a parked vehicle except as may be necessary for compliance with
this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.39)
§ 72.017 HAND AND ARM SIGNALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, all signals
required by the provisions of this traffic code, when given by hand and arm,
shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner, and
the signals shall indicate as follows:
      (1)   Left turn, hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn, hand and arm extended upward;
      (3)   Stop or decrease speed, hand and arm extended downward.
   (B)   As an alternative to division (A)(2) of this section, a person
operating a bicycle or electric bicycle may give a right turn signal by
extending the right hand and arm horizontally and to the right side of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.40)
§ 72.018 RIGHT TURNS ON RED PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a right turn against a
steady red signal at the following intersection during the hours of 7:00 a.m.
to 9:00 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. on school days:
      (1)   For north and south bound traffic traveling on Wooster Avenue at
the intersection of First Street; or
      (2)   For east and west bound traffic traveling on First Street at the
intersection of Wooster Avenue.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and shall be penalized as set
forth at §
70.99.
   (C)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior motor vehicle or traffic offense,
whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of a fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more previous motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(Ord. O-10-2011, passed 9-6-2011) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.019 BOARDING OR LEAVING STOPPED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful or enter a motor vehicle or to open a door thereof on
the side next to moving traffic unless such movement can be made without danger
or interference with such traffic.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.020 FAILURE TO CONTROL; WEAVING COURSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street or highway
without exercising reasonable and ordinary control over such vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street or highway in a
weaving or zigzag course unless such irregular course is necessary for safe
operation or in compliance with law.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
70.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 72.030 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   When two vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
streets or highways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle
on the left shall yield the right-of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right-of-way rule declared in division (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this traffic code or
R.C. Chapter 4511.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.41)
§ 72.031 RIGHT-OF-WAY WHEN TURNING LEFT.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road, or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.42)
§ 72.032 RIGHT-OF-WAY AT THROUGH HIGHWAYS; STOP SIGNS; YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a law enforcement officer, every
driver of a vehicle approaching a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering it. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right-of-
way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time the driver is
moving across or within the intersection or junction of roadways.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall slow down to a
speed reasonable for the existing conditions, and if required for safety to
stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering it. After
slowing, the driver shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time the driver is moving across or within the
intersection or junction of roadways. Whenever a driver is involved in a
collision with a vehicle in the intersection or junction of roadways, after
driving past a yield sign without stopping, the collision shall be prima facie
evidence of the driver’s failure to yield the right-of-way.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.43)
§ 72.033 STOP AT SIDEWALK AREA; STOP SIGNS ON PRIVATE ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, building, private
road, or driveway within a business or residence district shall stop the
vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area
extending across the alley, building entrance, road, or driveway, or in the
event there is no sidewalk area, shall stop at the point nearest the street to
be entered where the driver has a view of approaching traffic thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.431(A))
   (B)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may erect stop signs at
places where the road or driveway intersects with another private road or
driveway in the residential area, in compliance with all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The stop sign is sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily
observant person and meets the specifications of and is placed in accordance
with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation pursuant to R.C. §
4511.09;
      (2)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road or
driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road or
driveway that they are entering private property, stop signs have been posted
and must be obeyed, and the signs are enforceable by law enforcement officers
under state law. The sign required by this division, where appropriate, may be
incorporated with the sign required by R.C. § 4511.211(A)(2), or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The provisions of R.C. § 4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be deemed to apply to the
driver of a vehicle on a private road or driveway where a stop sign is placed
in accordance with division (B) of this section and to a pedestrian crossing
such a road or driveway at an intersection where a stop sign is in place.
   (D)   When a stop sign is placed in accordance with division (B) of this
section, any law enforcement officer may apprehend a person found violating the
stop sign and may stop and charge the person with violating the stop sign.
   (E)   As used in this section, and for the purpose of applying R.C. §
4511.43(A) and R.C. § 4511.46, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, to conduct under this section:
      INTERSECTION. Means:
         (a)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two private roads or driveways which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling
upon different private roads or driveways joining at any other angle may come
in conflict.
         (b)   Where a private road or driveway includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of such private roads or
driveways shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
      OWNER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.211.
      ROADWAY. Means that portion of a private road or driveway improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel, except the berm or shoulder.
If a private road or driveway includes two or more separate roadways, the term
means any such roadway separately but not all such roadways collectively.
(R.C.§ 4511.432(A) - (C), (E))
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B), 4511.432(D))
   (G)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.431(B))
§ 72.034 RIGHT-OF-WAY ON PUBLIC HIGHWAY.
   (A)   The operator of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from any
place other than another roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all traffic
approaching on the roadway to be entered or crossed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender violates division (A) of this section while distracted
and the distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the
offense, the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.44)
§ 72.035 PEDESTRIAN ON SIDEWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian
on a sidewalk.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.441)
§ 72.036 RIGHT-OF-WAY OF PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the approach of a public safety vehicle or coroner’s vehicle,
equipped with at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, and the driver is giving an audible signal by siren, exhaust
whistle, or bell, no driver of any other vehicle shall fail to yield the right-
of-way, immediately drive if practical to a position parallel to, and as close
as possible to, the right edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection, and stop and remain in that position until the public safety
vehicle or coroner’s vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section does not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle or
coroner’s vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons and property upon the highway.
   (C)   This section applies to a coroner’s vehicle only when the vehicle is
operated in accordance with R.C. § 4513.171, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. As used in this section, CORONER’S VEHICLE means a vehicle
used by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator that is equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and a siren, exhaust
whistle or bell capable of giving an audible signal.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (E), whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree on a first offense. On a second offense within one year after the first
offense, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree, and, on
each subsequent offense within one year after the first offense, the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 4511.45)
   (E)   (1)   When the failure of a motor vehicle operator to yield the right-
of-way to a public safety vehicle as required by division (A) of this section
impedes the ability of the public safety vehicle to respond to an emergency,
any emergency personnel in the public safety vehicle may report the license
plate number and a general description of the vehicle and the operator of the
vehicle to the law enforcement agency exercising jurisdiction over the area
where the alleged violation occurred.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a report under division (E)(1) of this
section, the law enforcement agency may conduct an investigation to attempt to
determine or confirm the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation.
         (b)   If the identity of the operator at the time of an alleged
violation of division (A) of this section is established, the law enforcement
agency has probable cause to issue either a written warning or a citation for
that violation, and the agency shall issue a written warning or a citation to
the operator.
         (c)   If the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time of
the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency may
issue a written warning to the person who owned the vehicle at the time of the
alleged violation. However, in the case of a leased or rented vehicle, the law
enforcement agency shall issue the written warning to the person who leased or
rented the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section based on a
report filed under division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor and shall be fined $150.
         (b)   If a person who is issued a citation for a violation of division
(A) of this section based on a report filed under division (E)(1) of this
section does not enter a written plea of guilty and does not waive the person’s
right to contest the citation but instead appears in person in the proper court
to answer the charge, the trier of fact cannot find beyond a reasonable doubt
that the person committed that violation unless the emergency personnel who
filed the report appears in person in the court and testifies.
      (4)   As used in this division (E):
         LICENSE PLATE. Includes any temporary motor vehicle license
registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182 or similar law of another
jurisdiction.
         PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE. Does not include an unmarked public safety
vehicle or a vehicle used by a public law enforcement officer or other person
sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state or a vehicle used
by the motor carrier enforcement unit for the enforcement of orders and rules
of the public utilities commission.
(R.C. § 4511.454)
§ 72.037 FUNERAL PROCESSION HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   As used in this section, FUNERAL PROCESSION means two or more vehicles
accompanying the cremated remains or the body of a deceased person in the
daytime when each of the vehicles has its headlights lighted and is displaying
a purple and white or an orange and white pennant attached to each vehicle in
such a manner as to be clearly visible to traffic approaching from any
direction.
   (B)   Excepting public safety vehicles proceeding in accordance with R.C. §
4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or when directed
otherwise by a police officer, pedestrians and the operators of all vehicles
shall yield the right-of-way to each vehicle that is a part of a funeral
procession. Whenever the lead vehicle in a funeral procession lawfully enters
an intersection, the remainder of the vehicles in the procession may continue
to follow the lead vehicle through the intersection, notwithstanding any
traffic-control devices or right-of-way provisions of the Ohio Revised Code,
provided that the operator of each vehicle exercises due care to avoid
colliding with any other vehicle or pedestrian.
   (C)   No person shall operate any vehicle as a part of a funeral procession
without having the headlights of the vehicle lighted and without displaying a
purple and white or an orange and white pennant in such a manner as to be
clearly visible to traffic approaching from any direction.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.451)
§ 72.038 PEDESTRIANS YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY TO PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of a public safety vehicle, as stated in
R.C. § 4511.45 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, every
pedestrian shall yield the right-of-way to the public safety vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not relieve the driver of a public safety vehicle
from the duty to exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.452)
§ 72.039 PEDESTRIAN ON CROSSWALK HAS RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place, not in operation, or
are not clearly assigning the right-of-way, the driver of a vehicle shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if need be to so yield, or if
required by R.C. § 4511.132 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is
upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is traveling, or when the
pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite half of the roadway as
to be in danger.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and
walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply under the conditions
stated in R.C. § 4511.48(B), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.46)
§ 72.040 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED TO BLIND PERSON.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section BLIND PERSON or BLIND PEDESTRIAN means a
person having not more than 20/200 visual acuity in the better eye with
correcting lenses, or visual acuity greater than 20/200, but with a limitation
in the fields of vision such that the widest diameter of the visual field
subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees.
      (2)   The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right-of-way to every
blind pedestrian guided by a guide dog, or carrying a cane which is
predominantly white or metallic in color, with or without a red tip.
   (B)   No person, other than a blind person, while on any public highway,
street, alley, or other public thoroughfare, shall carry a white or metallic
cane, with or without a red tip.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.47)
§ 72.041 RIGHT-OF-WAY YIELDED BY PEDESTRIAN.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all traffic upon the roadway.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are in
operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
   (D)   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movements.
   (E)   This section does not relieve the operator of a vehicle from
exercising due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.48)
PEDESTRIANS
§ 72.055 PEDESTRIAN MOVEMENT IN CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.49)
§ 72.056 PEDESTRIAN WALKING ALONG HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Where a sidewalk is provided and its use is practicable, it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where a sidewalk is not available, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall walk only on a shoulder, as far as practicable from the
edge of the roadway.
   (C)   Where neither a sidewalk nor a shoulder is available, any pedestrian
walking along and upon a highway shall walk as near as practicable to an
outside edge of the roadway, and, if on a two-way roadway, shall walk only on
the left side of the roadway.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. §§ 4511.13 and 4511.46, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, any pedestrian upon a roadway
shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.50)
§ 72.057 PROHIBITION AGAINST SOLICITING RIDES; RIDING ON OUTSIDE OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person while on a roadway outside a safety zone shall solicit a
ride from the driver of any vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall stand on a highway for the purpose of soliciting employment, business, or
contributions from the occupant of any vehicle.
      (2)   The Legislative Authority, by ordinance, may authorize the issuance
of a permit to a charitable organization to allow a person acting on behalf of
the organization to solicit charitable contributions from the occupant of a
vehicle by standing on a highway, other than a freeway as provided in R.C. §
4511.051(A)(1), that is under the jurisdiction of the municipality. The permit
shall be valid for only one period of time, which shall be specified in the
permit, in any calendar year. The Legislative Authority also may specify the
locations where contributions may be solicited and may impose any other
restrictions on or requirements regarding the manner in which the solicitations
are to be conducted that the Legislative Authority considers advisable.
      (3)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION
means an organization that has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
currently valid ruling or determination letter recognizing the tax-exempt
status of the organization pursuant to IRC § 501(c)(3).
   (C)   No person shall hang onto or ride on the outside of any motor vehicle
while it is moving upon a roadway, except mechanics or test engineers making
repairs or adjustments, or workers performing specialized highway or street
maintenance or construction under authority of a public agency.
   (D)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person to hang onto or ride on
the outside of any motor vehicle while it is moving upon a roadway, except
mechanics or test engineers making repairs or adjustments, or workers
performing specialized highway or street maintenance or construction under
authority of a public agency.
   (E)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall knowingly permit
any person who has not attained the age of 16 years to ride in the unenclosed
or unroofed cargo storage area of the driver’s vehicle if the vehicle is
traveling faster than 25 miles per hour, unless either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The cargo storage area of the vehicle is equipped with a properly
secured seat to which is attached a seat safety belt that is in compliance with
federal standards for an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. §
4513.263(A)(2), the seat and seat safety belt were installed at the time the
vehicle was originally assembled, and the person riding in the cargo storage
area is in the seat and is wearing the seat safety belt; or
      (2)   An emergency exists that threatens the life of the driver or the
person being transported in the cargo storage area of the truck, trailer, or
semitrailer.
   (F)   No driver of a truck, trailer, or semitrailer shall permit any person,
except for those workers performing specialized highway or street maintenance
or construction under authority of a public agency, to ride in the cargo
storage area or on a tailgate of the driver’s vehicle while the tailgate is
unlatched.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates any provision of divisions (A) through (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates any provision of
divisions (A) through (D) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.51)
§ 72.058 PEDESTRIAN ON BRIDGE OR RAILROAD CROSSING.
   (A)   No pedestrian shall enter or remain upon any bridge or approach
thereto beyond the bridge signal, gate, or barrier after a bridge operation
signal indication has been given.
   (B)   No pedestrian shall pass through, around, over, or under any crossing
gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing or bridge while the gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.511)
§ 72.059 PERSONS OPERATING MOTORIZED WHEELCHAIRS.
   Every person operating a motorized wheelchair shall have all of the rights
and duties applicable to a pedestrian that are contained in this chapter,
except those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(R.C. § 4511.491)
§ 72.060 INTOXICATED OR DRUGGED PEDESTRIAN HAZARD ON HIGHWAY.
   (A)   A pedestrian who is under the influence of alcohol, any drug of abuse,
or any combination of them to a degree that renders the pedestrian a hazard
shall not walk or be upon a highway.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.481)
§ 72.061 OPERATION OF ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices may be operated on
the public streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this Traffic Code that by their nature are applicable to an electric personal
assistive mobility device apply to the device and the person operating it
whenever it is operated upon any public street, highway, sidewalk, or path or
upon any portion of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
      (3)   The municipality may regulate or prohibit the operation of electric
personal assistive mobility devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and
paths, or portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles,
under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   No operator of an electric personal assistive mobility device shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and human-powered
vehicles at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (4)   Operate the device on any portion of a street or highway that has
an established speed limit of 55 miles per hour or more;
      (5)   Operate the device upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of
pedestrians or other specialized use when an appropriate sign giving notice of
the specialized use is posted on the path;
      (6)   If under 18 years of age, operate the device unless wearing a
protective helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened;
      (7)   If under 16 years of age, operate the device unless, during the
operation, the person is under the direct visual and audible supervision of
another person who is 18 years of age or older and is responsible for the
immediate care of the person under 16 years of age.
   (C)   No person who is under 14 years of age shall operate an electric
personal assistive mobility device.
   (D)   No person shall distribute or sell an electric personal assistive
mobility device unless the device is accompanied by a written statement that is
substantially equivalent to the following: “WARNING: TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
SERIOUS INJURY, USE ONLY WHILE WEARING FULL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT – HELMET,
WRIST GUARDS, ELBOW PADS, AND KNEE PADS”.
   (E)   Nothing in this section affects or shall be construed to affect any
rule of the Director of Natural Resources or a board of park district
commissioners governing the operation of vehicles on lands under the control of
the Director or board, as applicable.
   (F)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be fined $10;
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, the court, in addition to imposing
the fine required under division (F)(1)(a) of this section, shall do one of the
following:
            1.   Order the impoundment for not less than one day but not more
than 30 days of the electric personal assistive mobility device that was
involved in the current violation of that division. The court shall order the
device to be impounded at a safe indoor location designated by the court and
may assess storage fees of not more than $5 per day; provided the total
storage, processing, and release fees assessed against the offender or the
device in connection with the device’s impoundment or subsequent release shall
not exceed $50.
            2.    If the court does not issue an impoundment order pursuant to
division (F)(1)(b)1. of this section, issue an order prohibiting the offender
from operating any electric personal assistive mobility device on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and paths and portions of roadways set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles for not less than one day but not more than 30
days.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.512)
   (G)   As used in this code, ELECTRIC PERSONAL ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICE
means a self-balancing two non-tandem wheeled device that is designed to
transport only one person, has an electric propulsion system of an average of
750 watts, and when ridden on a paved level surface by an operator who weighs
170 pounds has a maximum speed of less than 20 miles per hour.
(R.C. § 4501.01(TT))
§ 72.062 OPERATION OF PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE ON SIDEWALKS AND CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ELIGIBLE ENTITY. Means a corporation, partnership, association, firm,
sole proprietorship, or other entity engaged in business.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE. Means an electrically powered device to which
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The device is intended primarily to transport property and cargo
on sidewalks and crosswalks.
         (b)   The device weighs less than 250 pounds excluding any property or
cargo being carried in the device.
         (c)   The device has a maximum speed of ten miles per hour.
         (d)   The device is equipped with technology that enables the
operation of the device with active control or monitoring by a person, without
active control or monitoring by a person, or both with or without active
control or monitoring by a person.
      PERSONAL DELIVERY DEVICE OPERATOR. Means an agent of an eligible entity
who exercises direct physical control over, or monitoring of, the navigation
and operation of a personal delivery device. The phrase does not include, with
respect to a delivery or other service rendered by a personal delivery device,
the person who requests the delivery or service. The phrase also does not
include a person who only arranges for and dispatches a personal delivery
device for a delivery or other service.
   (B)   An eligible entity may operate a personal delivery device on sidewalks
and crosswalks so long as all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The personal delivery device is operated in accordance with all
regulations, if any, established by each local authority within which the
personal delivery device is operated.
      (2)   A personal delivery device operator is actively controlling or
monitoring the navigation and operation of the personal delivery device.
      (3)   The eligible entity maintains an insurance policy that includes
general liability coverage of not less than $100,000 for damages arising from
the operation of the personal delivery device by the eligible entity and any
agent of the eligible entity.
      (4)   The device is equipped with all of the following:
         (a)   A marker that clearly identifies the name and contact
information of the eligible entity operating the personal delivery device and a
unique identification number;
         (b)   A braking system that enables the personal delivery device to
come to a controlled stop;
         (c)   If the personal delivery device is being operated between sunset
and sunrise, a light on both the front and rear of the personal delivery device
that is visible in clear weather from a distance of at least 500 feet to the
front and rear of the personal delivery device when directly in front of low
beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   No personal delivery device operator shall allow a personal delivery
device to do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with traffic or pedestrian control devices and
signals;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with pedestrians or traffic;
      (3)   Transport any hazardous material that would require a permit issued
by the Public Utilities Commission;
      (4)   Operate on a street or highway, except when crossing the street or
highway within a crosswalk.
   (D)   A personal delivery device has all of the rights and obligations
applicable to a pedestrian under the same circumstances, except that a personal
delivery device shall yield the right-of-way to human pedestrians on sidewalks
and crosswalks.
   (E)   (1)   No person shall operate a personal delivery device unless the
person is authorized to do so under this section and complies with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   An eligible entity is responsible for both of the following:
         (a)   Any violation of this section that is committed by a personal
delivery device operator; and
         (b)   Any other circumstance, including a technological malfunction,
in which a personal delivery device operates in a manner prohibited by
divisions (C)(1) to (C)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.513) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.063 LOW-SPEED MICROMOBILITY DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   A low-speed micromobility device may be operated on the public
streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and may be operated on any
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles in accordance
with this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, those sections of
this title that by their nature could apply to a low-speed micromobility device
do apply to the device and the person operating it whenever it is operated upon
any public street, highway, sidewalk, or shared-use path, or upon any portion
of a roadway set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   No operator of a low-speed micromobility device shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Fail to yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians at all times;
      (2)   Fail to give an audible signal before overtaking and passing a
pedestrian;
      (3)   Operate the device at night unless the device or its operator is
equipped with or wearing both of the following:
         (a)   A lamp pointing to the front that emits a white light visible
from a distance of not less than 500 feet;
         (b)   A red reflector facing the rear that is visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet when directly in front of lawful lower
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   No person who is under 16 years of age shall rent a low-speed
micromobility device.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device to
a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly rent a low-speed micromobility device on
behalf of a person who is under 16 years of age.
   (D)   No person shall operate a low-speed micromobility device at a speed
greater than 20 miles per hour.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Unless a mens rea is otherwise specified in this section, an
offense established under this section is a strict liability offense and R.C. §
2901.20 does not apply. The designation of that offense as a strict liability
offense shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for which there
is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
   (F)   Notwithstanding division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality,
county, township, metropolitan park district, township park district,
recreation district, or any division of the Ohio Department of Natural
Resources if the division has the approval of the Ohio Director of Natural
Resources may do any of the following:
      (1)   Regulate or prohibit the operation of low-speed micromobility
devices on public streets, highways, sidewalks, and shared-use paths, and
portions of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, under its
jurisdiction;
      (2)   Include low-speed micromobility devices that are adapted to expand
access for people with various physical limitations into a shared bicycle,
shared electric bicycle, or similar vehicle sharing program, under its
jurisdiction;
      (3)   Require the owner or operator of a low-speed micromobility device
rental service or low-speed micromobility device sharing program to maintain
commercial general liability insurance related to the operation of the devices,
with limits of up to $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 per aggregate.
(R.C. § 4511.514) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.064 LITTERING ON ROADWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall place or dispose of in any manner any garbage, waste,
weeds, leaves, grass clippings or peelings of vegetables or fruits, rubbish,
ashes, can, bottles, wire, paper cartons, boxes, parts of automobiles, wagons,
furniture, glass, oil or anything else of any unsightly or unsanitary nature
along or near or on any public road, street, parkway, park drive, highway,
sidewalk, ditch or land adjoining any public road or highway or ditch, except
on land provided by Council.
   (B)   No person shall transport junk, refuse or garbage in any manner over
and upon any street, alley, road, parkway, park drive or public highway in such
a manner that it is strewn upon and along such street, alley, road or public
highway.
Penalty, see §
70.99
GRADE CROSSINGS
§ 72.075 STOP SIGNS AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   As used in this section, ACTIVE GRADE CROSSING WARNING DEVICE means
signs, signals, gates, or other protective devices erected or installed at a
public highway-railway crossing at common grade and activated by an electrical
circuit.
   (B)   The Department of Transportation and local authorities, with the
approval of the Department, may designate dangerous highway crossings over
railroad tracks and erect stop signs thereat.
   (C)   (1)   The Department and local authorities shall erect stop signs at a
railroad highway grade crossing in either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   New warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning
devices are being installed at the grade crossing, and railroad crossbucks were
the only warning devices at the grade crossing prior to the installation of the
new warning devices.
         (b)   The grade crossing is constructed after July 1, 2013, and only
warning devices that are not active grade crossing warning devices are
installed at the grade crossing.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a railroad
highway grade crossing that the Director of Transportation has exempted from
that division because of traffic flow or other considerations or factors.
   (D)   When stop signs are erected pursuant to division (B) or (C) of this
section, the operator of any vehicle shall stop within 50, but not less than
15, feet from the nearest rail of the railroad tracks and shall exercise due
care before proceeding across such grade crossing.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (F)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.61)
§ 72.076 DRIVING VEHICLE ACROSS RAILROAD GRADE CROSSING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad
grade crossing, the person shall stop within 50 feet but not less than 15 feet
from the nearest rail of the railroad if any of the following circumstances
exist at the crossing:
         (a)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a train.
         (b)   A crossing gate is lowered.
         (c)   A flagperson gives or continues to give a signal of the approach
or passage of a train.
         (d)   There is insufficient space on the other side of the railroad
grade crossing to accommodate the vehicle the person is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles, pedestrians or railroad trains,
notwithstanding any traffic control signal indication to proceed.
         (e)   An approaching train is emitting an audible signal or is plainly
visible, and is in hazardous proximity to the crossing.
         (f)   There is insufficient undercarriage clearance to safely
negotiate the crossing.
      (2)   A person who is driving a vehicle and who approaches a railroad
grade crossing shall not proceed as long as any of the circumstances described
in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f) of this section exist at the crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while the gate or barrier is
closed, or is being opened or closed unless the person is signaled by a law
enforcement officer or flagperson that it is permissible to do so.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.62)
§ 72.077 VEHICLES REQUIRED TO STOP AT GRADE CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, the operator of
any bus, any school vehicle, or any vehicle transporting material required to
be placarded under 49 C.F.R. parts 100 through 185, before crossing at grade
any track of a railroad, shall stop the vehicle, and while so stopped, shall
listen through an open door or open window, and look in both directions along
the track for any approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of
a train, and shall proceed only upon exercising due care after stopping,
looking, and listening as required by this section. Upon proceeding, the
operator of such a vehicle shall cross only in a gear that will ensure there
will be no necessity for changing gears while traversing the crossing, and
shall not shift gears while crossing the tracks.
   (B)   This section does not apply at grade crossings when any local
authority has filed an application with the Public Utilities Commission
requesting the approval of an exempt crossing, and the Public Utilities
Commission has authorized and approved an exempt crossing as provided in R.C. §
4511.63(B).
   (C)   As used in this section:
      BUS. Means any vehicle originally designed by its manufacturer to
transport 16 or more passengers, including the driver, or carries 16 or more
passengers, including the driver.
      EXEMPT CROSSING. Means a highway rail grade crossing authorized and
approved by the Public Utilities Commission under R.C. § 4511.63(B) at which
vehicles may cross without making the stop otherwise required by this section.
      SCHOOL VEHICLE. Means any vehicle used for the transportation of pupils
to and from a school or school-related function if the vehicle is owned or
operated by, or operated under contract with, a public or nonpublic school.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or 4511.79, or
a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of those
sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.63)
§ 72.078 SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT CROSSING RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move any crawler-type tractor, steam
shovel, derrick, roller, or any equipment or structure having a normal
operating speed of six or less miles per hour or a vertical body or load
clearance of less than nine inches above the level surface of a roadway, upon
or across any tracks at a railroad grade crossing without first complying with
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   Before making any such crossing, the person operating or moving any
such vehicle or equipment shall first stop the same, and while stopped, the
person shall listen and look in both directions along the track for any
approaching train and for signals indicating the approach of a train, and shall
proceed only upon exercising due care.
      (2)   No such crossing shall be made when warning is given by automatic
signal, crossing gates, or a flagperson, or otherwise of the immediate approach
of a railroad train or car.
   (B)   If the normal sustained speed of the vehicle, equipment, or structure
is not more than three miles per hour, the person owning, operating, or moving
the same shall also give notice of the intended crossing to a station agent or
superintendent of the railroad, and a reasonable time shall be given to the
railroad to provide proper protection for the crossing. Where the vehicles or
equipment are being used in constructing or repairing a section of highway
lying on both sides of a railroad grade crossing, and in this construction or
repair it is necessary to repeatedly move the vehicles or equipment over the
crossing, one daily notice specifying when the work will start and stating the
hours during which it will be prosecuted is sufficient.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.64)
SCHOOL BUSES
§ 72.090 REGULATIONS CONCERNING SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle, upon meeting or overtaking from either
direction any school bus stopped for the purpose of receiving or discharging
any school child, person attending programs offered by community boards of
mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child
attending a program offered by a head start agency, shall stop at least ten
feet from the front or rear of the school bus and shall not proceed until such
school bus resumes motion, or until signaled by the school bus driver to
proceed. It is no defense to a charge under this division that the school bus
involved failed to display or be equipped with an automatically extended stop
warning sign as required by division (B) of this section.
   (B)    Every school bus shall be equipped with amber and red visual signals
meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.771 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, which shall be
actuated by the driver of the bus whenever but only whenever the bus is stopped
or stopping on the roadway for the purpose of receiving or discharging school
children, persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or children attending
programs offered by head start agencies. A school bus driver shall not actuate
the visual signals or the stop warning sign in designated school bus loading
areas where the bus is entirely off the roadway or at school buildings when
children or persons attending programs offered by community boards of mental
health and county boards of developmental disabilities are loading or unloading
at curbside or at buildings when children attending programs offered by head
start agencies are loading or unloading at curbside. The visual signals and
stop warning sign shall be synchronized or otherwise operated as required by
the Ohio Administrative Code.
   (C)   Where a highway has been divided into four or more traffic lanes, a
driver of a vehicle need not stop for a school bus approaching from the
opposite direction which has stopped for the purpose of receiving or
discharging any school child, persons attending programs offered by community
boards of mental health and county boards of developmental disabilities, or
children attending programs offered by head start agencies. The driver of any
vehicle overtaking the school bus shall comply with division (A) of this
section.
   (D)   School buses operating on divided highways or on highways with four or
more traffic lanes shall receive and discharge all school children, persons
attending programs offered by community boards of mental health and county
boards of developmental disabilities, and children attending programs offered
by head start agencies on their residence side of the highway.
   (E)   No school bus driver shall start the driver’s bus until after any
child, person attending programs offered by community boards of mental health
and county boards of developmental disabilities, or child attending a program
offered by a head start agency who may have alighted therefrom has reached a
place of safety on the child’s or person’s residence side of the road.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section may be fined an
amount not to exceed $500. A person who is issued a citation for a violation of
division (A) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty
and waive the person’s right to contest the citation in a trial but instead
must appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
      (2)   In addition to and independent of any other penalty provided by
law, the court or mayor may impose upon an offender who violates this section a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). When a
license is suspended under this section, the court or mayor shall cause the
offender to deliver the license to the court, and the court or clerk of the
court immediately shall forward the license to the Registrar of Motor Vehicles,
together with notice of the court’s action.
   (G)   As used in this section:
      HEAD START AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3301.32.
      SCHOOL BUS. As used in relation to children who attend a program offered
by a head start agency, means a bus that is owned and operated by a head start
agency, is equipped with an automatically extended stop warning sign of a type
approved by the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce, is painted the
color and displays the markings described in R.C. § 4511.77, and is equipped
with amber and red visual signals meeting the requirements of R.C. § 4511.77,
irrespective of whether or not the bus has 15 or more children aboard at any
time. The term does not include a van owned and operated by a head start
agency, irrespective of its color, lights or markings.
(R.C. § 4511.75)
§ 72.091 VIOLATION OF REGULATIONS; REPORT; INVESTIGATION; CITATION; WARNING.
   (A)   As used in this section, LICENSE PLATE includes but is not limited to
any temporary motor vehicle license registration issued under R.C. § 4503.182
or substantially equivalent law of another jurisdiction.
   (B)   When the operator of a school bus believes that a motorist has
violated R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
the operator shall report the license plate number and general description of
the vehicle and of the operator of the vehicle to the law enforcement agency
exercising jurisdiction over the area where the alleged violation occurred. The
information contained in the report relating to the license plate number and to
the general description of the vehicle and the operator of the vehicle at the
time of the alleged violation may be supplied by any person with first-hand
knowledge of the information. Information of which the operator of the school
bus has first-hand knowledge also may be corroborated by any other person.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the report of the alleged violation of R.C. § 4511.75
(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the law enforcement
agency shall conduct an investigation to attempt to determine the identity of
the operator of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation. If the
identity of the operator at the time of the alleged violation is established,
the reporting of the license plate number of the vehicle shall establish
probable cause for the law enforcement agency to issue a citation for the
violation of R.C. § 4511.75(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. However, if the identity of the operator of the vehicle at the time
of the alleged violation cannot be established, the law enforcement agency
shall issue a warning to the owner of the vehicle at the time of the alleged
violation, except in the case of a leased or rented vehicle when the warning
shall be issued to the lessee at the time of the alleged violation.
(R.C. § 4511.751)
§ 72.092 RESTRICTIONS ON THE OPERATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)    No person shall operate a vehicle used for pupil transportation
within this municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of
Education and Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety. No person,
being the owner thereof, or having the supervisory responsibility therefor,
shall permit the operation of a vehicle used for pupil transportation within
this municipality in violation of the rules of the Ohio Department of Education
and Workforce or the Ohio Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   As used in this section, VEHICLE USED FOR PUPIL TRANSPORTATION means
any vehicle that is identified as such by the Ohio Department of Education and
Workforce by rule and that is subject to O.A.C. Chapter 3301-83.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.76, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.76(C), (H), (I))
§ 72.093 SCHOOL BUS INSPECTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof,
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of, a
school bus within this municipality, unless there is displayed thereon the
decals issued by the state highway patrol bearing the proper date of inspection
for the calendar year for which the inspection decals were issued.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.761, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.762, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.761)
§ 72.094 SCHOOL BUS NOT USED FOR SCHOOL PURPOSES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person who is
the owner of a bus that previously was registered as a school bus that is used
or is to be used exclusively for purposes other than the transportation of
children shall operate the bus or permit it to be operated within this
municipality unless the bus has been painted a color different from that
prescribed for school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance and painted in such a way that the words “stop” and “school
bus” are obliterated.
   (B)   Any church bus that previously was registered as a school bus and is
registered under R.C. § 4503.07 may retain the paint color prescribed for
school buses by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance if the bus complies with all of the following:
      (1)   The words “school bus” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or obliterated and the
bus is marked on the front and rear with the words “church bus” painted in
black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
      (2)   The automatically extending stop warning sign required by R.C. §
4511.75 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance is removed and the
word “stop” required by R.C. § 4511.77 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance is covered or obliterated.
      (3)   The flashing red and amber lights required by R.C. § 4511.771 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance are covered or removed.
      (4)   The inspection decal required by R.C. § 4511.761 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance is covered or removed.
      (5)   The identification number assigned under R.C. § 4511.764 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance and marked in black lettering on
the front and rear of the bus is covered or obliterated.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.762, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764, 4511.77, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation, issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.762)
§ 72.095 LICENSING BY DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, or corporation shall transport
pupils to or from school on a school bus or enter into a contract with a board
of education of any school district for the transportation of pupils on a
school bus without being licensed by the Department of Public Safety.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.763)
§ 72.096 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SCHOOL BUSES.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor, permit the operation of a school
bus within this municipality unless there is displayed thereon an identifying
number in accordance with R.C. § 4511.764.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of R.C. § 4511.63,
4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.77, or 4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.764)
§ 72.097 SCHOOL BUS MARKING.
   (A)   No person shall operate, nor shall any person being the owner thereof
or having supervisory responsibility therefor permit the operation of, a school
bus within this municipality unless it is painted national school bus yellow
and is marked on both front and rear with the words “school bus” in black
lettering not less than eight inches in height and on the rear of the bus with
the word “stop” in black lettering not less than ten inches in height.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.77, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.79 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (C)   Whenever a person is found guilty in a court of record of a violation
of this section, the trial judge, in addition to or independent of all other
penalties provided by law, may suspend, for any period of time not exceeding
three years, or cancel the license of any person, partnership, association, or
corporation issued under R.C. § 4511.763.
(R.C. § 4511.77)
§ 72.098 FLASHING LIGHT SIGNAL LAMPS.
   (A)   Every school bus shall, in addition to any other equipment and
distinctive markings required pursuant to R.C. §§ 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.764
and 4511.77, and any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, be equipped
with signal lamps mounted as high as practicable, which shall display to the
front two alternately flashing red lights and two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level and to the rear two alternately flashing red
lights and alternately flashing amber lights located at the same level, and
these lights shall be visible at 500 feet in normal sunlight. The alternately
flashing red lights shall be spaced as widely as practicable, and the
alternately flashing amber lights shall be located next to them.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.771)
§ 72.099 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE FOR OPERATOR.
   (A)   On and after May 6, 1986, no person, school board, or governmental
entity shall purchase, lease, or rent a new school bus unless the school bus
has an occupant restraining device, as defined in R.C. § 4513.263, installed
for use in its operator’s seat.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.772)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 72.115 OBSTRUCTION AND INTERFERENCE AFFECTING VIEW AND CONTROL OF DRIVER.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the
driver to the front or sides of the vehicle, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle shall ride in a position as to interfere
with the driver’s view ahead or to the sides, or to interfere with the driver’s
control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall open the door of a vehicle on the side available to
moving traffic unless and until it is reasonably safe to do so, and can be done
without interfering with the movement of other traffic, nor shall any person
leave a door open on the side of a vehicle available to moving traffic for a
period of time longer than necessary to load or unload passengers.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.70)
§ 72.116 OCCUPYING TRAVEL TRAILER, FIFTH WHEEL VEHICLE OR MANUFACTURED OR
MOBILE HOME WHILE IN MOTION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, no person shall
occupy any travel trailer, fifth wheel trailer or manufactured or mobile home
while it is being used as a conveyance upon a street or highway.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a fifth wheel
trailer when both of the following apply:
         (a)   Any child riding in the fifth wheel trailer is properly secured
in the manner provided in R.C. § 4511.81; and
         (b)   The operator of the vehicle towing the fifth wheel trailer has
some means of viable communication with the passengers riding in the trailer.
      (2)   As used in this division, “viable communication” includes a
cellular or satellite telephone, a radio or any other similar electronic
wireless communications device.
   (C)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
(R.C. § 4511.701)
§ 72.117 DRIVING UPON CLOSED HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive upon, along, or across a street or highway, or
any part of a street or highway that has been closed in the process of its
construction, reconstruction, or repair, and posted with appropriate signs by
the authority having jurisdiction to close the highway.
(R.C. § 4511.71(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on or onto a public street or
highway that is temporarily covered by a rise in water level, including
groundwater or an overflow of water, and that is clearly marked by a sign that
specifies that the road is closed due to the rise in water level and that any
person who uses the closed portion of the road may be fined up to $2,000.
      (2)   A person who is issued a citation for a violation of division (B)
(1) of this section is not permitted to enter a written plea of guilty and
waive the person’s right to contest the citation in court, but instead must
appear in person in the proper court to answer the charge.
(R.C. § 4511.714(A), (B))
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If,
within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of
or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.71(B))
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required
under R.C. § 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required under
any provision of law, the court imposing the sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (B) of this section
shall order the offender to reimburse one or more rescuers for the cost any
such rescuer incurred in rescuing the person, excluding any cost of
transporting the rescued person to a hospital or other facility for treatment
of injuries, up to a cumulative maximum of $2,000. If more than one rescuer was
involved in the emergency response, the court shall allocate the reimbursement
proportionately, according to the cost each rescuer incurred. A financial
sanction imposed under this section is a judgment in favor of the rescuer and,
subject to a determination of indigency under R.C. § 2929.28(B), a rescuer may
collect the financial sanction in the same manner as provided in R.C. §
2929.28.
(R.C. § 4511.714(C))
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Has the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 9.60.
      FIREFIGHTING AGENCY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      PRIVATE FIRE COMPANY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 9.60.
      RESCUER. Means a state agency, political subdivision, firefighting
agency, private fire company, or emergency medical service organization.
(R.C. § 4511.714(D))
§ 72.118 DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK AREA OR PATHS EXCLUSIVELY FOR BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall drive any vehicle, other than a bicycle or an
electric bicycle if the motor is not engaged, upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area,
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
      (2)   This prohibition does not apply to a law enforcement officer, or
other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, using
an electric bicycle with the motor engaged while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting local
authorities from regulating the operation of bicycles or electric bicycles,
except that no local authority may require that bicycles or electric bicycles
be operated on sidewalks.
(R.C. § 4511.711(A))
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, snowmobile, or all-
purpose vehicle upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, when
an appropriate sign giving notice of such use is posted on the path.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect any rule of
the Director of Natural Resources governing the operation of motor vehicles,
snowmobiles, all-purpose vehicles, and bicycles on lands under the Director’s
jurisdiction.
(R.C. § 4511.713(A))
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.711(B), 4511.713(B))
§ 72.119 OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk, or drive
onto any railroad grade crossing, unless there is sufficient space on the other
side of the intersection, crosswalk, or grade crossing to accommodate the
vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage of other
vehicles, pedestrians, or railroad trains, notwithstanding any traffic-control
signal indication to proceed.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.712)
§ 72.120 FOLLOWING AN EMERGENCY OR PUBLIC VEHICLE PROHIBITED; APPROACHING
STATIONARY PUBLIC SAFETY VEHICLE AND CERTAIN OTHER VEHICLES WITH CAUTION.
   (A)   Following an emergency or public vehicle prohibited. The driver of any
vehicle, other than an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle on official
business, shall not follow any emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle
traveling in response to an alarm closer than 500 feet, or drive into or park
the vehicle within the block where the fire apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm, unless directed to do so by a police officer or a firefighter.
(R.C. § 4511.72(A))
   (B)   Approaching stationary public safety vehicle with caution.
      (1)   The driver of a motor vehicle, upon approaching a stationary public
safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection
vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor
vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a
highway maintenance vehicle that is displaying the appropriate visual signals
by means of flashing, oscillating, or rotating lights, as prescribed in R.C. §
4513.17, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   If the driver of the motor vehicle is traveling on a highway
that consists of at least two lanes that carry traffic in the same direction of
travel as that of the driver’s motor vehicle, the driver shall proceed with due
caution and, if possible and with due regard to the road, weather, and traffic
conditions, shall change lanes into a lane that is not adjacent to that of the
stationary public safety vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle,
waste collection vehicle, vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to
conduct motor vehicle inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and
4923.06, or a highway maintenance vehicle.
         (b)   If the driver is not traveling on a highway of a type described
in division (B)(1)(a) of this section, or if the driver is traveling on a
highway of that type but it is not possible to change lanes or if to do so
would be unsafe, the driver shall proceed with due caution, reduce the speed of
the motor vehicle, and maintain a safe speed for the road, weather, and traffic
conditions.
      (2)   This division (B) does not relieve the driver of a public safety
vehicle, emergency vehicle, road service vehicle, waste collection vehicle,
vehicle used by the Public Utilities Commission to conduct motor vehicle
inspections in accordance with R.C. §§ 4923.04 and 4923.06, or a highway
maintenance vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of
all persons and property upon the highway.
      (3)   No person shall fail to drive a motor vehicle in compliance with
divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)(1)(b) of this section when so required by division
(B) of this section.
(R.C. § 4511.213(A) - (C))
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding §
130.99 or R.C. § 2929.28, upon a finding that a person operated a motor vehicle
in violation of division (B)(3) of this section, the court, in addition to all
other penalties provided by law, shall impose a fine of two times the usual
amount imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(D), 4511.72(B))
   (D)   The offense established under division (B) of this section is a strict
liability offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this
offense as a strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any
other offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a
strict liability offense.
(R.C. §§ 4511.213(E))
§ 72.121 DRIVING OVER UNPROTECTED FIRE HOSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall, without the consent of the fire department official
in command, be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department that is
laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any fire or alarm of
fire.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.73)
§ 72.122 PLACING INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON HIGHWAY OR DEPOSITING LITTER FROM MOTOR
VEHICLE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a
highway, lane, road, street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails,
or other articles which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal
traveling along or upon the highway, except such substances that may be placed
upon the roadway by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
      (2)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same.
      (3)   Any person authorized to remove a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a
highway shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the
highway from such vehicle.
      (4)   No person shall place any obstruction in or upon a highway without
proper authority.
   (B)   No person, with intent to cause physical harm to a person or a
vehicle, shall place or knowingly drop upon any part of a highway, lane, road,
street, or alley any tacks, bottles, wire, glass, nails, or other articles
which may damage or injure any person, vehicle, or animal traveling along or
upon such highway, except such substances that may be placed upon the roadway
by proper authority for the repair or construction thereof.
(R.C. § 4511.74(A), (B))
   (C)   No operator or occupant of a motor vehicle shall, regardless of
intent, throw, drop, discard, or deposit litter from any motor vehicle in
operation upon any street, road, or highway, except into a litter receptacle in
a manner that prevents its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (D)   No operator of a motor vehicle in operation upon any street, road, or
highway shall allow litter to be thrown, dropped, discarded, or deposited from
the motor vehicle, except into a litter receptacle in a manner that prevents
its being carried away or deposited by the elements.
   (E)   As used in this section, LITTER means garbage, trash, waste, rubbish,
ashes, cans, bottles, wire, paper, cartons, boxes, automobile parts, furniture,
glass, or anything else of an unsightly or unsanitary nature.
(R.C. § 4511.82(A), (B), (D))
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted
of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4511.74(C))
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.82(C))
§ 72.123 TRANSPORTING CHILD NOT IN CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   When any child who is in either or both of the following categories is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly secured in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions in a child
restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (B)    When any child who is in either or both of the following categories
is being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, that is owned,
leased, or otherwise under the control of a nursery school or child care
center, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child properly secured
in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions in a child restraint system
that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards:
      (1)   A child who is less than four years of age;
      (2)   A child who weighs less than 40 pounds.
   (C)   When any child who is less than eight years of age and less than four
feet nine inches in height, who is not required by division (A) or (B) of this
section to be secured in a child restraint system, is being transported in a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 4511.01 or a vehicle that is regulated under R.C. § 5104.015, that is
required by the United States Department of Transportation to be equipped with
seat belts at the time of manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor
vehicle shall have the child properly secured in accordance with the
manufacturer’s instructions on a booster seat that meets federal motor vehicle
safety standards.
   (D)   When any child who is at least eight years of age but not older than
15 years of age, and who is not otherwise required by division (A), (B), or (C)
of this section to be secured in a child restraint system or booster seat, is
being transported in a motor vehicle, other than a taxicab or public safety
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that is required by the United States
Department of Transportation to be equipped with seat belts at the time of
manufacture or assembly, the operator of the motor vehicle shall have the child
properly restrained either in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions
in a child restraint system that meets federal motor vehicle safety standards
or in an occupant restraining device as defined in R.C. § 4513.263.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause an operator of a motor vehicle being operated
on any street or highway to stop the motor vehicle for the sole purpose of
determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section or causing the
arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of division
(C) or (D) of this section, and absent another violation of law, a law
enforcement officer’s view of the interior or visual inspection of a motor
vehicle being operated on any street or highway may not be used for the purpose
of determining whether a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section has
been or is being committed.
   (F)   The Director of Public Safety shall adopt such rules as are necessary
to carry out this section.
   (G)   The failure of an operator of a motor vehicle to secure a child in a
child restraint system, a booster seat, or an occupant restraining device as
required in this section is not negligence imputable to the child, is not
admissible as evidence in any civil action involving the rights of the child
against any other person allegedly liable for injuries to the child, is not to
be used as a basis for a criminal prosecution of the operator of the motor
vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section, and is not
admissible as evidence in any criminal action involving the operator of the
motor vehicle other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
   (H)   This section does not apply when an emergency exists that threatens
the life of any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle that is being
used to transport a child who otherwise would be required to be restrained
under this section. This section does not apply to a person operating a motor
vehicle who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states that the child who otherwise would be
required to be restrained under this section has a physical impairment that
makes use of a child restraint system, booster seat, or an occupant restraining
device impossible or impractical, provided that the person operating the
vehicle has safely and appropriately restrained the child in accordance with
any recommendations of the physician or chiropractor as noted on the affidavit.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require any person to
carry with the person the birth certificate of a child to prove the age of the
child, but the production of a valid birth certificate for a child showing that
the child was not of an age to which this section applies is a defense against
any ticket, citation, or summons issued for violating this section.
   (J)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section
shall be punished as follows, provided that the failure of an operator of a
motor vehicle to secure more than one child in a child restraint system,
booster seat, or occupant restraining device as required by this section that
occurred at the same time, on the same day, and at the same location is deemed
to be a single violation of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(1)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be fined not
less than $25 nor more than $75.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A), (B), (C), or (D) of this section or of a
state law or municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent any of those
divisions, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   All fines imposed pursuant to division (J)(1) of this section shall
be forwarded to the State Treasurer for deposit in the Child Highway Safety
Fund created by R.C. § 4511.81(I).
(R.C. § 4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L))
§ 72.124 OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      AUTOMOBILE. Means any commercial tractor, passenger car, commercial car,
or truck that is required to be factory-equipped with an occupant restraining
device for the operator or any passenger by regulations adopted by the United
States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the “National Traffic and Motor
Vehicle Safety Act of 1966”, 80 Stat. 719, 15 U.S.C. § 1392.
      COMMERCIAL CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      COMMERCIAL TRACTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      OCCUPANT RESTRAINING DEVICE. A seat safety belt, shoulder belt, harness,
or other safety device for restraining a person who is an operator of or
passenger in an automobile and that satisfies the minimum federal vehicle
safety standards established by the United States Department of Transportation.
      PASSENGER. Any person in an automobile, other than its operator, who is
occupying a seating position for which an occupant restraining device is
provided.
      PASSENGER CAR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      TORT ACTION. A civil action for damages for injury, death, or loss to
person or property. The term includes a product liability claim, as defined in
R.C. § 2307.71, and as asbestos claim, as defined in R.C. § 2307.91, but does
not include a civil action for damages for breach of contract or another
agreement between persons.
      VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE. As used in the definitions of the terms set
forth above, VEHICLE and MOTOR VEHICLE have the same meanings as in R.C. §
4511.01.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless he or she is
wearing all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device, or operate a school bus that has an occupant restraining
device installed for use in its operator’s seat unless he or she is wearing all
of the available elements of the device, as properly adjusted.
      (2)   Operate an automobile on any street or highway unless each
passenger in the automobile who is subject to the requirement set forth in
division (B)(3) of this section is wearing all of the available elements of a
properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
      (3)   Occupy, as a passenger, a seating position on the front seat of an
automobile being operated on any street or highway unless he or she is wearing
all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining
device.
      (4)   Operate a taxicab on any street or highway unless all factory-
equipped occupant restraining devices in the taxicab are maintained in usable
form.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is
required by R.C. § 4511.81 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to
be secured in a child restraint device or booster seat.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
an employee of the United States Postal Service or of a newspaper home delivery
service, during any period in which the person is engaged in the operation of
an automobile to deliver mail or newspapers to addressees.
      (3)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has an affidavit signed by a physician licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4731 or a chiropractor licensed to practice in this
state under R.C. Chapter 4734 that states the following:
         (a)   That the person has a physical impairment that makes use of an
occupant restraining device impossible or impractical;
         (b)   Whether the physical impairment is temporary, permanent, or
reasonably expected to be permanent;
         (c)   If the physical impairment is temporary, how long the physical
impairment is expected to make the use of an occupant restraining device
impossible or impractical.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(3) of this section do not apply to a
person who has registered with the Registrar of Motor Vehicles in accordance
with division (C)(5) of this section.
      (5)   A person who has received an affidavit under division (C)(3) of
this section stating that the person has a permanent or reasonably expected to
be permanent physical impairment that makes use of an occupant restraining
device impossible or impracticable may register with the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles attesting to that fact. Upon such registration, the Registrar shall
make that information available in the law enforcement automated data system. A
person included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not
required to have the affidavit obtained in accordance with division (C)(3) of
this section in their possession while operating or occupying an automobile.
      (6)   A physician or chiropractor who issues an affidavit for the
purposes of division (C)(3) or (C)(4) of this section is immune from civil
liability arising from any injury or death sustained by the person who was
issued the affidavit due to the failure of the person to wear an occupant
restraining device unless the physician or chiropractor, in issuing the
affidavit, acted in a manner that constituted willful, wanton, or reckless
misconduct.
      (7)   The Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 establishing a process for a person to be included in the
database under division (C)(5) of this section. The information provided and
included in the database under division (C)(5) of this section is not a public
record subject to inspection or copying under R.C. § 149.43.
   (D)   Officers not permitted to stop cars to determine violation.
Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law enforcement
officer shall cause an operator of an automobile being operated on any street
or highway to stop the automobile for the sole purpose of determining whether a
violation of division (B) of this section has been or is being committed or for
the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or summons for the violation or
for causing the arrest of or commencing a prosecution of a person for the
violation. No law enforcement officer shall view the interior or visually
inspect any automobile being operated on any street or highway for the sole
purpose of determining whether the violation has been or is being committed.
   (E)   Use of fines for educational program. All fines collected for
violations of division (B) of this section shall be forwarded to the State
Treasurer for deposit in the funds as set forth in R.C. § 4513.263(E).
   (F)   Limitations on evidence used for prosecution.
      (1)   Subject to division (F)(2) of this section, the failure of a person
to wear all of the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant
restraining device in violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(3) of this section or
the failure of a person to ensure that each minor who is a passenger of an
automobile being operated by that person is wearing all of the available
elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device in violation of
division (B)(2) of this section shall not be considered or used by the trier of
fact in a tort action as evidence of negligence or contributory negligence.
But, the trier of fact may determine based on evidence admitted consistent with
the Ohio Rules of Evidence that the failure contributed to the harm alleged in
the tort action and may diminish a recovery of compensatory damages that
represents non-economic loss, as defined in R.C. § 2307.011, in a tort action
that could have been recovered but for the plaintiff’s failure to wear all of
the available elements of a properly adjusted occupant restraining device.
Evidence of that failure shall not be used as a basis for a criminal
prosecution of the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this
section; and shall not be admissible as evidence in a criminal action involving
the person other than a prosecution for a violation of this section.
      (2)   If, at the time of an accident involving a passenger car equipped
with occupant restraining devices, any occupant of the passenger car who
sustained injury or death was not wearing an available occupant restraining
device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a device, or was
not wearing such a device as properly adjusted, then, consistent with the Rules
of Evidence, the fact that the occupant was not wearing the available occupant
restraining device, was not wearing all of the available elements of such a
device, or was not wearing such a device as properly adjusted is admissible in
evidence in relation to any claim for relief in a tort action to the extent
that the claim for relief satisfies all of the following:
         (a)   It seeks to recover damages for injury or death to the occupant;
         (b)   The defendant in question is the manufacturer, designer,
distributor, or seller of the passenger car;
         (c)   The claim for relief against the defendant in question is that
the injury or death sustained by the occupant was enhanced or aggravated by
some design defect in the passenger car or that the passenger car was not
crashworthy.
   (G)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section shall be fined
$30.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section shall be subject
to the penalty set forth in §
70.99(B).
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section shall be fined
$20.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, whoever violates division (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4513.263)
Cross-reference:
   Child restraint systems, see §
72.123
   Installation and sale of seat safety belts, see §
74.33
   School bus operators, restraining devices, see §
72.099
§ 72.125 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The non-emergency use of engine brakes within the municipality is
prohibited.
   (B)   As used in this section, ENGINE BRAKES shall be defined to include but
is not limited to Jake Brakes, Jacobs Brakes, C Brakes, PacBrakes, TekBrakes,
and any other type of engine retarders commonly utilized within the trucking
industry.
   (C)   This section does not apply to emergency vehicles operated by fire,
police, or military units.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
§ 72.126 OPERATING MOTOR VEHICLE WHILE WEARING EARPHONES OR EARPLUGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      EARPHONES. Any device that covers all or a portion of both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
      EARPHONES does not include speakers or other listening devices that are
built into protective headgear.
      EARPLUGS. Any device that can be inserted into one or both ears and that
does either of the following:
         (a)   Through either a physical connection to another device or a
wireless connection, provides the listener with radio programs, music, or other
information;
         (b)   Provides hearing protection.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle while wearing earphones over,
or earplugs in, both ears.
   (C)   This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Any person wearing a hearing aid;
      (2)   Law enforcement personnel while on duty;
      (3)   Fire Department personnel and emergency medical service personnel
while on duty;
      (4)   Any person engaged in the operation of equipment for use in the
maintenance or repair of any highway;
      (5)   Any person engaged in the operation of refuse collection equipment;
      (6)   Any person wearing earphones or earplugs for hearing protection
while operating a motorcycle.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.84)
§ 72.127 CHAUFFEURED LIMOUSINES AND LIVERY SERVICES.
   (A)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine shall accept passengers only
on the basis of prearranged contracts, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, and shall
not cruise in search of patronage unless the limousine is in compliance with
any statute or ordinance governing the operation of taxicabs or other similar
vehicles for hire.
   (B)   The operator of a chauffeured limousine may provide transportation to
passengers who arrange for the transportation through an intermediary,
including a digital dispatching service. Notwithstanding any law to the
contrary, when providing transportation arranged through an intermediary, the
operator of a chauffeured limousine may establish the fare and method of fare
calculation, so long as the method of fare calculation is provided to the
passenger upon request.
   (C)   No person shall advertise or hold himself or herself out as doing
business as a limousine service or livery service or other similar designation
unless each vehicle used by the person to provide the service is registered in
accordance with R.C. § 4503.24 and is in compliance with R.C. § 4509.80.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4511.85)
Statutory reference:
   Chauffeured limousine, motor vehicle licensing, see R.C. § 4503.24
   Proof of financial responsibility, see R.C. § 4509.80
§ 72.128 OPERATING TRACTION ENGINE UPON IMPROVED HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   No person shall drive over the improved highways of this municipality
a traction engine or tractor with tires or wheels equipped with ice picks,
spuds, spikes, chains or other projections of any kind extending beyond the
cleats, and no person shall tow or in any way pull another vehicle over the
improved highways of this municipality which towed or pulled vehicle has tires
or wheels equipped with ice picks, spuds, spikes, chains or other projections
of any kind. As used in this section, “traction engine” or “tractor” applies to
all self-propelling engines equipped with metal-tired wheels operated or
propelled by any form of engine, motor or mechanical power.
   (B)   This municipality shall not adopt, enforce, or maintain any ordinance,
rule or regulation contrary to or inconsistent with division (A), nor shall
this municipality require any license tax upon or registration fee for any
traction engine, tractor, or trailer, or any permit or license to operate.
Operators of traction engines or tractors shall have the same rights upon the
public streets and highways as the drivers of any other vehicles, unless some
other safe and convenient way is provided, and no public road open to traffic
shall be closed to traction engines or tractors.
(R.C. § 5589.08)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 72.129 CRACKING EXHAUST NOISES; PEELING OUT.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe
operation, or in compliance with law, in such a manner that the vehicle is so
rapidly accelerated or started from a stopped position, or in the shifting of
gears while in motion, that the exhaust system emits a loud, cracking or
chattering noise unusual to its normal operation, or that the rubber tires of
such vehicle squeal or leave tire marks on the roadway, commonly known as
“peeling out”.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.130 SHORTCUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall enter upon private property for the
sole purpose of driving across such property, between abutting streets or other
public ways thereof. The failure to stop on such property in connection with or
in furtherance of the enterprise or activities being conducted on the property
shall constitute prima facie evidence of the violation.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.131 TEXTING WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle on any street, highway or
property open to the public for vehicular traffic while using, holding or
physically supporting with any part of the person’s body an electronic wireless
communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device to make
contact, for emergency purposes, with a law enforcement agency, hospital or
health care provider, fire department or other similar emergency agency or
entity;
      (2)   A person driving a public safety vehicle while using an electronic
wireless communications device in the course of the person’s duties;
      (3)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device when
the person’s motor vehicle is in a stationary position and is outside a lane of
travel, at a traffic control signal that is currently directing traffic to stop
or parked on a road or highway due to an emergency or road closure;
      (4)   A person using and holding an electronic wireless communications
device directly near the person’s ear for the purpose of making, receiving or
conducting a telephone call; provided that the person does not manually enter
letters, numbers or symbols into the device;
      (5)   A person receiving wireless messages on an electronic wireless
communications device regarding the operation or navigation of a motor vehicle;
safety-related information, including emergency, traffic or weather alerts; or
data used primarily by the motor vehicle; provided that the person does not
hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (6)   A person using the speaker phone function of the electronic
wireless communications device; provided that the person does not hold or
support the device with any part of the person’s body;
      (7)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
navigation purposes; provided that the person does not do either of the
following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers or symbols into the device; or
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (8)   A person using a feature or function of the electronic wireless
communications device with a single touch or single swipe; provided that the
person does not do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers or symbols into the device; or
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (9)   A person operating a commercial truck while using a mobile data
terminal that transmits and receives data;
      (10)   A person operating a utility service vehicle or a vehicle for or
on behalf of a utility, if the person is acting in response to an emergency,
power outage or circumstance that affects the health or safety of individuals;
      (11)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device in
conjunction with a voice-operated or hands-free feature or function of the
vehicle or of the device without the use of either hand except to activate,
deactivate or initiate the feature or function with a single touch or swipe;
provided the person does not hold or support the device with any part of the
person’s body;
      (12)   A person using technology that physically or electronically
integrates the device into the motor vehicle; provided that the person does not
do either of the following during the use:
         (a)   Manually enter letters, numbers or symbols into the device; or
         (b)   Hold or support the device with any part of the person’s body.
      (13)   A person storing an electronic wireless communications device in a
holster, harness or article of clothing on the person’s body.
   (C)   If a law enforcement officer issues an offender a ticket, citation or
summons for a violation of division (A) of this section, the officer shall do
both of the following:
      (1)   Report the issuance of the ticket, citation or summons to the
officer’s law enforcement agency; and
      (2)   Ensure that such report indicates the offender’s race.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle while using an electronic wireless communication device, an
unclassified misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in divisions (D)(1)
to (D)(5) of this section.
      (1)   The offender shall be fined, and is subject to a suspension of the
offender's driver's license, commercial driver's license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege, as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in divisions (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), (D)(1)(d)
and (D)(2) of this section, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine of
not more than $150.
         (b)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one prior violation of this section, R.C. §
4511.204 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court shall
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $250.
         (c)   If, within two years of the violation, the offender has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more prior violations of this section,
R.C. § 4511.204 or a substantially equivalent or municipal ordinance, the court
shall impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $500. The court also may
impose a suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license or nonresident
operating privilege for 90 days.
         (d)   Notwithstanding divisions (D)(1)(a) to (D)(1)(c) of this
section, if the offender was operating the motor vehicle at the time of the
violation in a construction zone where a sign was posted in accordance with
R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other penalties provided by law,
shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times the amount imposed for the
violation under division (D)(1)(a), (D)(1)(b) or (D)(1)(c) of this section, as
applicable.
      (2)    If the offender is in the category of offenders to whom division
(D)(1)(a) of this section applies, in lieu of payment of the fine of $150 under
division (D)(1)(a) of this section and the assessment of points under division
(D)(4) of this section, the offender instead may elect to attend the distracted
driving safety course, as described in R.C. § 4511.991. If the offender attends
and successfully completes the course, the offender shall be issued written
evidence that the offender successfully completed the course. The offender
shall not be required to pay the fine and shall not have the points assessed
against that offender's driver's license if the offender submits the written
evidence to the court within 90 days of the violation of division (A) of this
section. However, successful completion of the course does not result in a
dismissal of the charges for the violation, and the violation is a prior
offense under divisions (D)(1)(b) and (D)(1)(c) of this section if the offender
commits a subsequent violation or violations of division (A) of this section
within two years of the offense for which the course was completed. This
division does not apply with respect to any offender in the category of
offenders to whom division (D)(1)(b), (D)(1)(c), or (D)(1)(d) of this section
applies.
      (3)   The court may impose any other penalty authorized under R.C. §§
2929.21 to 2929.28. However, the court shall not impose a fine or a suspension
not otherwise specified in division (D)(1) of this section. The court also
shall not impose a jail term or community residential sanction.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (D)(2) of this section, points shall
be assessed for a violation of division (A) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   The offense established under this section is a strict liability
offense and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The designation of this offense as a
strict liability offense shall not be construed to imply that any other
offense, for which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict
liability offense.
   (E)   A prosecution for an offense in violation of this section does not
preclude a prosecution for an offense in violation of R.C. § 4511.204 based on
the same conduct. However, the two offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (F)   (1)   A law enforcement officer does not have probable cause and shall
not stop the operator of a motor vehicle for purposes of enforcing this section
unless the officer visually observes the operator using, holding or physically
supporting with any part of the person’s body the electronic wireless
communications device.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer who stops the operator of a motor vehicle
for a violation of division (A) of this section shall inform the operator that
the operator may decline a search of the operator’s electronic wireless
communications device. The officer shall not do any of the following:
         (a)   Access the device without a warrant, unless the operator
voluntarily and unequivocally gives consent for the officer to access the
device;
         (b)   Confiscate the device while awaiting the issuance of a warrant
to access the device; or
         (c)   Obtain consent from the operator to access the device through
coercion or any other improper means. Any consent by the operator to access the
device shall be voluntary and unequivocal before the officer may access the
device without a warrant.
   (G)    As used in this section:
      ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Includes any of the following:
         (a)   A wireless telephone;
         (b)   A text-messaging device;
         (c)   A personal digital assistant;
         (d)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
         (e)   Any device capable of displaying a video, movie, broadcast
television image or visual image; and
         (f)   Any other substantially similar wireless device that is designed
or used to communicate text, initiate or receive communication or exchange
information or data.
      An ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE does not include a two-way
radio transmitter or receiver used by a person who is licensed by the federal
communications commission to participate in the amateur radio service.
      UTILITY. An entity specified in R.C. § 4905.03(A), (C), (D), (E) or (G).
      UTILITY SERVICE VEHICLE. A vehicle owned or operated by a utility.
      VOICE-OPERATED OR HANDS-FREE FEATURE OR FUNCTION. A feature or function
that allows a person to use an electronic wireless communications device
without the use of either hand, except to activate, deactivate or initiate the
feature or function with a single touch or single swipe.
(R.C. § 4511.204)
Statutory reference:
   No preemption for local regulations imposing greater penalties, see R.C. §
4511.204(E)
§ 72.132 USE OF ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATION DEVICES BY MINORS OR
PROBATIONARY DRIVERS WHILE DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No holder of a temporary instruction permit who has not attained the
age of 18 years and no holder of a probationary driver’s license shall drive a
motor vehicle on any street, highway, or property used by the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking while using in any manner an
electronic wireless communications device.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to either of the
following:
      (1)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device for
emergency purposes, including an emergency contact with a law enforcement
agency, hospital or health care provider, fire department, or other similar
emergency agency or entity;
      (2)   A person using an electronic wireless communications device whose
motor vehicle is in a stationary position and the motor vehicle is outside a
lane of travel;
      (3)   A person using a navigation device in a voice-operated or hands-
free manner who does not manipulate the device while driving.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, whoever
violates division (A) of this section shall be fined $150. In addition, the
court shall impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license
or permit for a definite period of 60 days.
      (2)   If the person previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or
a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section, whoever violates
this section shall be fined $300. In addition, the court shall impose a class
seven suspension of the person’s driver’s license or permit for a definite
period of one year.
   (D)   The filing of a sworn complaint against a person for a violation of
this section does not preclude the filing of a sworn complaint for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct. However, if a person is adjudicated a
delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a violation of this section
and is also adjudicated a delinquent child or a juvenile traffic offender for a
violation of R.C. § 4511.205 for the same conduct, the two offenses are allied
offenses of similar import under R.C. § 2941.25.
   (E)   As used in this section, ELECTRONIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE
includes any of the following:
      (1)   A wireless telephone;
      (2)   A personal digital assistant;
      (3)   A computer, including a laptop computer and a computer tablet;
      (4)   A text-messaging device;
      (5)   Any other substantially similar electronic wireless device that is
designed or used to communicate via voice, image, or written word.
(R.C. § 4511.205)
§ 72.133 TRUCK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a truck, trailer or semi-trailer, as defined
by R.C. § 4511.01, excepting trucks and trailers weighing 10,000 pounds of less
when empty, upon Bodmer Avenue in the village, accept as otherwise set forth
hereinafter.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any truck, trailer or semi-trailer
that is making a delivery or pickup from a residence or business located on
Bodmer Avenue in the village.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to emergency vehicles, village-owned
vehicles, sanitation vehicles and utility vehicles engaged in the repair of
public utility services, or vehicles which are lawfully stored or kept on
premises.
   (D)   This section shall not apply during such times of emergency or
otherwise as designated by the Mayor, the Chief of Police or the Fire Chief,
which shall include, but not be limited to, vehicles being re-routed onto
Bodmer Avenue during the Ox Roast Parade and during such other times of
emergency as it is necessary to close Wooster Avenue in the village.
   (E)   The village shall cause traffic-control signs to be erected
prohibiting the use of Bodmer Avenue by truck traffic as proscribed by this
section at the following locations: the intersection of Ninth Street, SW and
Bodmer Avenue; the intersection of Fifth Street, SW and Bodmer Avenue; the
intersection of Fifth Street, NW and Bodmer Avenue; and the intersection of
First Street and Bodmer Avenue.
   (F)   A violation of this section shall be a minor misdemeanor punishable by
a fine of not more than $100 for the first offense. For each subsequent offense
within any 12-month period, such violation shall be a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree, punishable by a fine of not more than $250, imprisonment for not more
than 30 days, or both. For purposes of this section, the terms PERSON and
OPERATOR include the actual driver of the vehicle and the person, partnership,
firm or corporation owning or leasing the vehicle and using the vehicle in a
business operation.
(Ord. O-10-2001, passed 6-5-2001)
§ 72.134 UNNECESSARY NOISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sound any signaling device except when
reasonably necessary for the prevention of an accident.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to screech tires or in any manner to create noise
by unnecessary braking, acceleration, deceleration, banking or turning of a
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.135 OPERATION OF RADIOS OR OTHER SOUND MAKING DEVICES OR INSTRUMENTS IN
VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person operating or occupying a motor vehicle
within the village to operate or amplify the sound produced by a radio, tape
player or other sound making device or instrument from within the motor vehicle
so that the sound is plainly audible at a distance of 100 feet or more from the
motor vehicle.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any law enforcement
motor vehicle equipped with any communication device necessary in the
performance of law enforcement duties or to any emergency vehicle equipped with
any communication device necessary in the performance of any emergency
procedures.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to the noise made by a
horn or other warning device required or permitted by state law.
   (D)   PLAINLY AUDIBLE means any sound produced by a radio, tape player or
other mechanical or electronic sound making device, or instrument, from within
the interior or exterior of a motor vehicle, including sound produced by a
portable sound making device, that can be clearly heard outside the vehicle by
a person using his normal hearing faculties, at a distance of 100 feet or more
from the motor vehicle.
   (E)   Any law enforcement personnel who hears a sound that is plainly
audible as defined herein, shall be entitled to measure the sound according to
the following standards:
      (1)   The primary means of detection shall be by means of the officer’s
ordinary auditory senses, so long as the officer’s hearing is not enhanced by
any mechanical device, such as a microphone or hearing aid;
      (2)   The officer must have a direct line of sight and hearing to the
motor vehicle producing the sound so that he or she can readily identify the
offending motor vehicle producing the sound so that he or she can readily
identify the offending motor vehicle and the distance involved; and
      (3)   The officer need not determine the particular words or phrases
being produced or the name of any song or artist producing the sound. The
detection of a rhythmic bass reverberating type sound is sufficient to
constitute a plainly audible sound.
   (F)   The motor vehicle from which the sound is produced must be located
(stopped, standing or moving) within the village. Parking lots and driveways
are included.
   (G)   The penalty for a violation of this section shall be a minor
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: MOTOR VEHICLE CRIMES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs
   
73.02   Implied consent
   
73.03   Physical control of vehicle while under the influence
   
73.04   Driving commercial vehicle with impaired alertness or ability; use of
drugs
   
73.05   Reckless operation of vehicles
   
73.06   Reckless operation off streets and highways; competitive operation
   
73.07   Operator to be in reasonable control
   
73.08   Immobilizing or disabling device violation
   
73.09   Street racing, stunt driving and street takeovers prohibited
   
73.10   Speed limits
   
73.11   Slow speed or stopping
   
73.12   Emergency vehicles excepted from speed limitation
   
73.13   Speed regulations on bridges
   
73.14   Presenting false name or information to officer
   
73.15   Prohibition against resisting officer
   
73.16   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or
utility vehicles
   
73.17   Specialized motor vehicles
   
73.18   Speed limits within village park
Stopping After Accident
   
73.30   Failure to stop after accident
   
73.31   Stopping after accident on other than public roads or highways
   
73.32   Accident involving damage to realty
   
73.33   Failure to report accident
Statutory reference:
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOL OR DRUGS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any vehicle within this municipality,
if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse,
or a combination of them.
         (b)   The person has a concentration of 0.08% or more but less than
0.17% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (c)   The person has a concentration of 0.096% or more but less than
0.204% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
         (d)   The person has a concentration of 0.08 grams or more but less
than 0.17 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (e)   The person has a concentration of 0.11 grams or more but less
than 0.238 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s
urine.
         (f)   The person has a concentration of 0.17% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
         (g)   The person has a concentration of 0.204% or more by weight per
unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or plasma.
         (h)   The person has a concentration of 0.17 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
         (i)   The person has a concentration of 0.238 grams or more by weight
of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
         (j)   Except as provided in division (K) of this section, the person
has a concentration of any of the following controlled substances or
metabolites of a controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum
or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds any of the following:
            1.   The person has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s
urine of at least 500 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of amphetamine in the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of amphetamine per milliliter
of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            2.   The person has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s
urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s urine
or has a concentration of cocaine in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of cocaine per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            3.   The person has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s urine of at least 150 nanograms of cocaine metabolite per milliliter
of the person’s urine or has a concentration of cocaine metabolite in the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms of
cocaine metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            4.   The person has a concentration of heroin in the person’s urine
of at least 2,000 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s urine or
has a concentration of heroin in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma of at least 50 nanograms of heroin per milliliter of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma.
            5.   The person has a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-
monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s urine of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s urine or has
a concentration of heroin metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of heroin
metabolite (6-monoacetyl morphine) per milliliter of the person’s whole blood
or blood serum or plasma.
            6.   The person has a concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s urine
of at least 25 nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s urine or a
concentration of L.S.D. in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of
at least ten nanograms of L.S.D. per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or
blood serum or plasma.
            7.   The person has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s
urine of at least ten nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the person’s
urine or has a concentration of marihuana in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least two nanograms of marihuana per milliliter of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            8.   Either of the following applies:
               a.   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or a combination of them, and the person has a concentration of
marihuana metabolite in the person’s urine of at least 15 nanograms of
marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s urine or has a
concentration of marihuana metabolite in the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma of at least five nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
               b.   The person has a concentration of marihuana metabolite in
the person’s urine of at least 35 nanograms of marihuana metabolite per
milliliter of the person’s urine or has a concentration of marihuana metabolite
in the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 50 nanograms
of marihuana metabolite per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood
serum or plasma.
            9.   The person has a concentration of methamphetamine in the
person’s urine of at least 500 nanograms of methamphetamine per milliliter of
the person’s urine or has a concentration of methamphetamine in the person’s
whole blood or blood serum or plasma of at least 100 nanograms of
methamphetamine per milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or
plasma.
            10.   The person has a concentration of phencyclidine in the
person’s urine of at least 25 nanograms of phencyclidine per milliliter of the
person’s urine or has a concentration of phencyclidine in the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma of at least ten nanograms of phencyclidine per
milliliter of the person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma.
            11.   The State Board of Pharmacy has adopted a rule pursuant to
R.C. § 4729.041 that specifies the amount of salvia divinorum and the amount of
salvinorin A that constitute concentrations of salvia divinorum and salvinorin
A in a person’s urine, in a person’s whole blood, or in a person’s blood serum
or plasma at or above which the person is impaired for purposes of operating
any vehicle within this state, the rule is in effect, and the person has a
concentration of salvia divinorum or salvinorin A of at least that amount so
specified by rule in the person’s urine, in the person’s whole blood, or in the
person’s blood serum or plasma.
      (2)   No person who, within 20 years of the conduct described in division
(A)(2)(a) of this section, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of this division or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or any other
equivalent offense shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Operate any vehicle within this municipality while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (b)   Subsequent to being arrested for operating the vehicle as
described in division (A)(2)(a) of this section, being asked by a law
enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and being advised by the
officer in accordance with R.C. § 4511.192 or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance of the consequences of the person’s refusal or submission
to the test or tests, refuse to submit to the test or tests.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall operate any vehicle within this
municipality, if, at the time of the operation, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02% but less than
0.08% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s whole blood.
      (2)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.03% but less than
0.096% by weight per unit volume of alcohol in the person’s blood serum or
plasma.
      (3)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.02 grams but less than
0.08 grams by weight of alcohol per 210 liters of the person’s breath.
      (4)   The person has a concentration of at least 0.028 grams but less
than 0.11 grams by weight of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the person’s urine.
   (C)   In any proceeding arising out of one incident, a person may be charged
with a violation of division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(2) and a violation of division
(B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section, but the person may not be convicted
of more than one violation of these divisions.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding
for a violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section or for an equivalent
offense that is vehicle-related, the result of any test of any blood or urine
withdrawn and analyzed at any health care provider, as defined in R.C. §
2317.02, may be admitted with expert testimony to be considered with any other
relevant and competent evidence in determining the guilt or innocence of the
defendant.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) or
(B) of this section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, the
court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of abuse,
controlled substances, metabolites of a controlled substance, or a combination
of them in the defendant’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance at the time of the alleged violation as shown by
chemical analysis of the substance withdrawn within three hours of the time of
the alleged violation. The three-hour time limit specified in this division
regarding the admission of evidence does not extend or affect the two-hour time
limit specified in R.C. § 4511.192(A) as the maximum period of time during
which a person may consent to a chemical test or tests as described in that
section. The court may admit evidence on the concentration of alcohol, drugs of
abuse, or a combination of them as described in this division when a person
submits to a blood test at the request of a law enforcement officer under R.C.
§ 4511.191 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a blood or
urine sample is obtained pursuant to a search warrant. Only a physician, a
registered nurse, an emergency medical technician-intermediate, an emergency
medical technician-paramedic, or a qualified technician, chemist, or
phlebotomist shall withdraw a blood sample for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the whole blood, blood serum, or blood plasma. This
limitation does not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. A person
authorized to withdraw blood under this division may refuse to withdraw blood
under this division, if in that person’s opinion, the physical welfare of the
person would be endangered by the withdrawing of blood. The bodily substance
withdrawn under this division (D)(1)(b) shall be analyzed in accordance with
methods approved by the Director of Health by an individual possessing a valid
permit issued by the Director pursuant to R.C. § 3701.143.
         (c)   As used in division (D)(1)(b) of this section, EMERGENCY MEDICAL
TECHNICIAN-INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4765.01.
      (2)   In a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this
section or for an equivalent offense that is vehicle-related, if there was at
the time the bodily substance was withdrawn a concentration of less than the
applicable concentration of alcohol specified in divisions (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)
(c), (A)(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) of this section or less than the applicable
concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance specified for a violation of division (A)(1)(j) of this
section, that fact may be considered with other competent evidence in
determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. This division does not
limit or affect a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   Upon the request of the person who was tested, the results of the
chemical test shall be made available to the person or the person’s attorney,
immediately upon the completion of the chemical test analysis. If the chemical
test was obtained pursuant to division (D)(1)(b) of this section, the person
tested may have a physician, a registered nurse, or a qualified technician,
chemist, or phlebotomist of the person’s own choosing administer a chemical
test or tests, at the person’s expense, in addition to any administered at the
request of a law enforcement officer. If the person was under arrest as
described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the arresting officer shall advise the
person at the time of the arrest that the person may have an independent
chemical test taken at the person’s own expense. If the person was under arrest
other than described in R.C. § 4511.191(A)(5), the form to be read to the
person to be tested, as required under §
73.02, shall state that the person may have an independent test performed at
the person’s expense. The failure or inability to obtain an additional chemical
test by a person shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the
chemical test or tests taken at the request of a law enforcement officer.
      (4)   (a)   As used in division (D)(4)(b) and (D)(4)(c) of this section,
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION means the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration established as an administration of the United
States Department of Transportation under 96 Stat. 2415 (1983), 49 U.S.C. §
105.
         (b)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, of a municipal ordinance
relating to operating a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of
abuse, or alcohol and a drug of abuse, or of a municipal ordinance relating to
operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine, if a law enforcement officer has
administered a field sobriety test to the operator of the vehicle involved in
the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally accepted field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect that were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
            1.   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
            2.   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field
sobriety test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding.
            3.   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (D)(4)(b)1. or (D)(4)(b)2. of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
         (c)   Division (D)(4)(b) of this section does not limit or preclude a
court, in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (D)(4)(b) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   Subject to division (E)(3) of this section, in any criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a violation of division (A)(1)(b),
(A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), (A)(1)(e), (A)(1)(f), (A)(1)(g), (A)(1)(h), (A)(1)(i), or
(A)(1)(j) or (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section or for an
equivalent offense that is substantially equivalent to any of those divisions,
a laboratory report from any laboratory personnel issued a permit by the
Department of Health authorizing an analysis as described in this division that
contains an analysis of the whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, urine,
or other bodily substance tested and that contains all of the information
specified in this division shall be admitted as prima facie evidence of the
information and statements that the report contains. The laboratory report
shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   The signature, under oath, of any person who performed the
analysis;
         (b)   Any findings as to the identity and quantity of alcohol, a drug
of abuse, a controlled substance, a metabolite of a controlled substance, or a
combination of them that was found;
         (c)   A copy of a notarized statement by the laboratory director of a
designee of the director that contains the name of each certified analyst or
test performer involved with the report, the analyst’s or test performer’s
employment relationship with the laboratory that issued the report, and a
notation that performing an analysis of the type involved is part of the
analyst’s or test performer’s regular duties;
         (d)   An outline of the analyst’s or test performer’s education,
training, and experience in performing the type of analysis involved and a
certification that the laboratory satisfies appropriate quality control
standards in general and, in this particular analysis, under rules of the
Department of Health.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the admission
of evidence, a report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
is not admissible against the defendant to whom it pertains in any proceeding,
other than a preliminary hearing or a grand jury proceeding, unless the
prosecutor has served a copy of the report on the defendant’s attorney or, if
the defendant has no attorney, on the defendant.
      (3)   A report of the type described in division (E)(1) of this section
shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents, identity, or amount of any
substance if, within seven days after the defendant to whom the report pertains
or the defendant’s attorney receives a copy of the report, the defendant or the
defendant’s attorney demands the testimony of the person who signed the report.
The judge in the case may extend the seven-day time limit in the interest of
justice.
   (F)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, any physician,
registered nurse, emergency medical technician-intermediate, emergency medical
technician-paramedic, or qualified technician, chemist, or phlebotomist who
withdraws blood from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, and any hospital, first-aid station, or clinic at which
blood is withdrawn from a person pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.19,
4511.191 or 4511.192, is immune from criminal liability and civil liability
based upon a claim of assault and battery or any other claim that is not a
claim of malpractice, for any act performed in withdrawing blood from the
person. The immunity provided in this division also extends to an emergency
medical service organization that employs an emergency medical technician-
intermediate or emergency medical technician-paramedic who withdraws blood
under this section. The immunity provided in this division is not available to
a person who withdraws blood if the person engages in willful or wanton
misconduct.
      (2)   As used in division (F)(1), EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-
INTERMEDIATE and EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN-PARAMEDIC have the same meanings
as in R.C. § 4765.01.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates any provisions of divisions (A)(1)(a) through
(A)(1)(i) or (A)(2) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them. Whoever
violates division (A)(1)(j) of this section is guilty of operating a vehicle
while under the influence of a listed controlled substance or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance. The court shall sentence the offender for
either offense under R.C. Chapter 2929, except as otherwise authorized or
required by divisions (G)(1)(a) through (G)(1)(e) of this section:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(b), (G)(1)(c),
(G)(1)(d) or (G)(1)(e) of this section, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor
of the first degree, and the court shall sentence the offender to all of the
penalties and sanctions provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a)(i) through (G)(1)
(a)(iv).
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one violation of division (A) of this section
or one other equivalent offense is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
The court shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions
provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) through (G)(1)(b)(v).
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (A) of this
section or other equivalent offenses is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court
shall sentence the offender to all of the penalties and sanctions provided in
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c)(i) through (G)(1)(c)(vi).
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in division (G)(1)(e) of this
section, an offender who, within ten years of the offense, previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division (A) of
this section or other equivalent offenses or an offender who, within 20 years
of the offense, previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to five or
more violations of that nature, or an offender who previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a specification of the type described in R.C.
§ 2941.1413, is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
         (e)   An offender who previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) that was a felony, regardless of
when the violation and the conviction or guilty plea occurred, is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   An offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section and who subsequently seeks reinstatement of the
driver’s or occupational driver’s license or permit or nonresident operating
privilege suspended under this section or R.C. § 4511.19 as a result of the
conviction or guilty plea shall pay a reinstatement fee as provided in R.C. §
4511.191(F)(2).
      (3)   (a)   If an offender is sentenced to a jail term under R.C. §
4511.19(G)(1)(b)(i) or (G)(1)(b)(ii) or (G)(1)(c)(i) or (G)(1)(c)(ii) and if,
within 60 days of sentencing of the offender, the court issues a written
finding on the record that, due to the unavailability of space at the jail
where the offender is required to serve the term, the offender will not be able
to begin serving that term within the 60-day period following the date of
sentencing, the court may impose an alternative sentence as specified in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3) that includes a term of house arrest with electronic monitoring,
with continuous alcohol monitoring, or with both electronic monitoring and
continuous alcohol monitoring.
         (b)   As an alternative to the mandatory jail terms as required by
R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1), the court may sentence the offender as provided in R.C. §
4511.19(G)(3).
      (4)   If an offender’s driver’s or occupational driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is suspended under division (G) of
this section or R.C. § 4511.19(G) and if R.C. § 4510.13 permits the court to
grant limited driving privileges, the court may grant the limited driving
privileges in accordance with that section. If division (A)(7) of that section
requires the court impose as a condition of the privileges that the offender
must display on the vehicle that is driven subject to the privileges restricted
license plates that are issued under R.C. § 4503.231, except as provided in
division (B) of that section, the court shall impose that condition as one of
the conditions of the limited driving privileges granted to the offender,
except as provided in R.C. § 4503.231(B).
      (5)   Fines imposed under this section for a violation of division (A) of
this section shall be distributed as provided in R.C. § 4511.19(G)(5).
      (6)   If title to a motor vehicle that is subject to an order of criminal
forfeiture under division (G)(1)(c), (G)(1)(d), or (G)(1)(e) of this section is
assigned or transferred and R.C. § 4503.234(B)(2) or (B)(3) applies, in
addition to or independent of any other penalty established by law, the court
may fine the offender the value of the vehicle as determined by publications of
the National Automobile Dealers Association. The proceeds of any fine so
imposed shall be distributed in accordance with division (C)(2) of that
section.
      (7)   In all cases in which an offender is sentenced under division (G)
of this section, the offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, the court, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for
any economic loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and
proximate result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense for which the offender is sentenced under division
(G) of this section.
      (8)   A court may order an offender to reimburse a law enforcement agency
for any costs incurred by the agency with respect to a chemical test or tests
administered to the offender if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (A) of this section.
         (b)   The test or tests were of the offender’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, or urine.
         (c)   The test or tests indicated that the offender had a prohibited
concentration of a controlled substance or a metabolite of a controlled
substance in the offender’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine at the
time of the offense.
      (9)   As used in division (G) of this section, ELECTRONIC MONITORING has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of operating a
motor vehicle after underage alcohol consumption and shall be punished as
follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (H)(2) of this section,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. In addition to
any other sanction imposed for the offense, the court shall impose a class six
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6). The court may grant
limited driving privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021
and 4510.13. The court may grant unlimited driving privileges with an ignition
interlock device relative to the suspension and may reduce the period of
suspension as authorized under R.C. § 4510.022. If the court grants unlimited
driving privileges under R.C. § 4510.022, the court shall suspend any jail term
imposed under division (H)(1) of this section as required under that section.
      (2)   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of division (A)
of this section or other equivalent offense or offenses, the offender is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the third degree. In addition to any other sanction imposed
for the offense, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4). The court may grant limited driving
privileges relative to the suspension under R.C. §§ 4510.021 and 4510.13.
      (3)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the vehicle before, during or after
committing the violation of division (B) of this section.
   (I)   (1)   No court shall sentence an offender to an alcohol treatment
program under this section unless the treatment program complies with the
minimum standards for alcohol treatment programs adopted under R.C. Chapter
5119 by the Director of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
      (2)   An offender who stays in a drivers’ intervention program or in an
alcohol treatment program under an order issued under this section shall pay
the cost of the stay in the program. However, if the court determines that an
offender who stays in an alcohol treatment program under an order issued under
this section is unable to pay the cost of the stay in the program, the court
may order that the cost be paid from the court’s Indigent Drivers’ Alcohol
Treatment Fund.
   (J)   If a person whose driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege is suspended under this section or R.C. §
4511.19 files an appeal regarding any aspect of the person’s trial or sentence,
the appeal itself does not stay the operation of the suspension.
   (K)   Division (A)(1)(j) of this section does not apply to a person who
operates a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed controlled
substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s
whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds the amount
specified in that division, if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
   (L)   The prohibited concentrations of a controlled substance or a
metabolite of a controlled substance listed in division (A)(1)(j) of this
section also apply in a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2923.16(D) in the
same manner as if the offender is being prosecuted for a prohibited
concentration of alcohol.
   (M)   All terms defined in R.C. § 4510.01 apply to this section. If the
meaning of a term defined in R.C. § 4510.01 conflicts with the meaning of the
same term as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or 4511.01, the term as defined in R.C.
§ 4510.01 applies to this section.
(R.C. § 4511.19(A) - (M))
   (N)   As used in this section, §
73.02 and §
73.03:
      COMMUNITY RESIDENTIAL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      CONTINUOUS ALCOHOL MONITORING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.01.
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (b)   A violation of a municipal OVI ordinance;
         (c)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in a case in which the offender
was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that section;
         (d)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(1) or R.C. § 2903.08 or a
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to either of those
divisions;
         (e)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.06(A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4), R.C. §
2903.08(A)(2), or former R.C. § 2903.07, or a municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to any of those divisions or that former section, in a
case in which a judge or jury as the trier of fact found that the offender was
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them;
         (f)   A violation of R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (g)   A violation of a municipal ordinance prohibiting a person from
operating or being in physical control of any vessel underway or from
manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar device on the waters of this
state while under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination
of them or prohibiting a person from operating or being in physical control of
any vessel underway or from manipulating any water skis, aquaplane, or similar
device on the waters of this state with a prohibited concentration of alcohol,
a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine;
         (h)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A);
         (i)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A) or R.C. § 1547.11(A).
      EQUIVALENT OFFENSE THAT IS VEHICLE-RELATED. Means an equivalent offense
that is any of the following:
         (a)   A violation described in division (a), (b), (c), (d), or (e) of
the definition for “equivalent offense” provided in this division (N);
         (b)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance, law of
another state or law of the United States that is substantially equivalent to
R.C. § 4511.19(A);
         (c)   A violation of a former law of this state that was substantially
equivalent to R.C. § 4511.19(A).
      JAIL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Means the mandatory term in jail of 3, 6, 10, 20,
30, or 60 days that must be imposed under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(a), (G)(1)(b),
or (G)(1)(c) upon an offender convicted of a violation of division (A) of that
section and in relation to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
must be served in a jail.
         (b)   Except as specifically authorized under R.C. § 4511.19, the term
cannot be suspended, reduced, or otherwise modified pursuant to R.C. §§ 2929.21
through 2929.28 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code.
      MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      MANDATORY TERM OF LOCAL INCARCERATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2929.01.
      MUNICIPAL OVI ORDINANCE and MUNICIPAL OVI OFFENSE. Mean any municipal
ordinance prohibiting a person from operating a vehicle while under the
influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or prohibiting
a person from operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
(R.C. § 4511.181)
Cross-reference:
   Endangering children, see §
135.14
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see     R.C. § 4510.13
   Trial judge to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. § 4510.05
§ 73.02 IMPLIED CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   As used in this section:
         ALCOHOL MONITORING DEVICE. Means any device that provides for
continuous alcohol monitoring, any ignition interlock device, any immobilizing
or disabling device other than an ignition interlock device that is constantly
available to monitor the concentration of alcohol in a person’s system, or any
other device that provides for the automatic testing and periodic reporting of
alcohol consumption by a person and that a court orders a person to use as a
sanction imposed as a result of the person’s conviction of or plea of guilty to
an offense.
         COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 5119.01.
         PHYSICAL CONTROL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.194.
      (2)   Any person who operates a vehicle upon a highway or any public or
private property used by the public for vehicular travel or parking within this
municipality or who is in physical control of a vehicle shall be deemed to have
given consent to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood, blood
serum or plasma, breath, or urine to determine the alcohol, drug of abuse,
controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or combination
content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine if
arrested for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance.
      (3)   The chemical test or tests under division (A)(2) of this section
shall be administered at the request of a law enforcement officer having
reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in physical control
of a vehicle in violation of a division, section, or ordinance identified in
division (A)(2) of this section. The law enforcement agency by which the
officer is employed shall designate which of the tests shall be administered.
      (4)   Any person who is dead or unconscious, or who otherwise is in a
condition rendering the person incapable of refusal, shall be deemed to have
consented as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, and the test or tests
may be administered, subject to R.C. §§ 313.12 through 313.16.
      (5)   (a)   If a law enforcement officer arrests a person for a violation
of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance and if the person if
convicted would be required to be sentenced under R.C. § 4511.19(G)(1)(c), (d),
or (e), the law enforcement officer shall request the person to submit, and the
person shall submit, to a chemical test or tests of the person’s whole blood,
blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine. A law enforcement officer who makes a request
pursuant to this division that a person submit to a chemical test or tests is
not required to advise the person of the consequences of submitting to, or
refusing to submit to, the test or tests and is not required to give the person
the form described in division (C) of this section, but the officer shall
advise the person at the time of the arrest that if the person refuses to take
a chemical test the officer may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. The officer shall also advise the person at the
time of the arrest that the person may have an independent chemical test taken
at the person’s own expense. Divisions (A)(3) and (A)(4) of this section apply
to the administration of a chemical test or tests pursuant to this division.
         (b)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test upon a request
made pursuant to division (A)(5)(a) of this section, the law enforcement
officer who made the request may employ whatever reasonable means are necessary
to ensure that the person submits to a chemical test of the person’s whole
blood or blood serum or plasma. A law enforcement officer who acts pursuant to
this division to ensure that a person submits to a chemical test of the
person’s whole blood or blood serum or plasma is immune from criminal and civil
liability based upon a claim for assault and battery or any other claim for the
acts, unless the officer so acted with malicious purpose, in bad faith, or in a
wanton or reckless manner.
(R.C. § 4511.191(A))
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, the arresting
law enforcement officer shall give advice in accordance with this section to
any person under arrest for a violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or any other municipal OVI ordinance. The officer shall
give that advice in a written form that contains the information described in
division (C) of this section and shall read the advice to the person. The form
shall contain a statement that the form was shown to the person under arrest
and read to the person by the arresting officer. One or more persons shall
witness the arresting officer’s reading of the form, and the witnesses shall
certify to this fact by signing the form. The person must submit to the
chemical test or tests, subsequent to the request of the arresting officer,
within two hours of the time of the alleged violation and, if the person does
not submit to the test or tests within that two-hour time limit, the failure to
submit automatically constitutes a refusal to submit to the test or tests.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (A)(5) of this section, if a person is
under arrest as described in division (B) of this section, before the person
may be requested to submit to a chemical test or tests to determine the
alcohol, drug of abuse, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled
substance, or combination content of the person’s whole blood, blood serum or
plasma, breath, or urine, the arresting officer shall read the following form
to the person:
   You now are under arrest for (specifically state the offense under state law
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for which the person was
arrested – operating a vehicle under the influence of alcohol, a drug, or a
combination of them; operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance;
operating a vehicle after underage alcohol consumption; or having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence).
   If you refuse to take any chemical test required by law, your Ohio driving
privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay a fee to
have the privileges reinstated. If you have a prior conviction of OVI or
operating a vehicle while under the influence of a listed controlled substance
or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance under state or municipal law
within the preceding 20 years, you are now under arrest for state OVI, and, if
you refuse to take a chemical test, you will face increased penalties if you
subsequently are convicted of the state OVI.
   (Read this part unless the person is under arrest for solely having physical
control of a vehicle while under the influence.) If you take any chemical test
required by law and are found to be at or over the prohibited amount of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
your whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine as set by law, your
Ohio driving privileges will be suspended immediately, and you will have to pay
a fee to have the privileges reinstated.
   If you take a chemical test, you may have an independent chemical test taken
at your own expense.
   (D)   If the arresting law enforcement officer does not ask a person under
arrest as described in division (B) of this section or division (A)(5) of this
section to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this
section, the arresting officer shall seize the Ohio or out-of-state driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or permit of the person and immediately forward it
to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the charge. If the
arrested person is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is
not in the person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it
to the law enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after
the arrest, and, upon the surrender, the agency immediately shall forward the
license or permit to the court in which the person is to appear on the charge.
Upon receipt of the license or permit, the court shall retain it pending the
arrested person’s initial appearance and any action taken under R.C. §
4511.196.
   (E)   (1)   If a law enforcement officer asks a person under arrest as
described in division (A)(5) of this section to submit to a chemical test or
tests under that division and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, or if a law enforcement
officer asks a person under arrest as described in division (B) of this section
to submit to a chemical test or tests under R.C. § 4511.191 or this section, if
the officer advises the person in accordance with this section of the
consequences of the person’s refusal or submission, and if either the person
refuses to submit to the test or tests or, unless the arrest was for a
violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the
person submits to the test or tests and the test results indicate a prohibited
concentration of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma,
breath, or urine at the time of the alleged offense, the arresting officer
shall do all of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the Registrar of Motor Vehicles, notify the person
that, independent of any penalties or sanctions imposed upon the person, the
person’s Ohio driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege is suspended immediately, that the suspension will last at
least until the person’s initial appearance on the charge, which will be held
within five days after the date of the person’s arrest or the issuance of a
citation to the person, and that the person may appeal the suspension at the
initial appearance or during the period of time ending 30 days after that
initial appearance;
         (b)   Seize the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit of
the person and immediately forward it to the Registrar. If the arrested person
is not in possession of the person’s license or permit or it is not in the
person’s vehicle, the officer shall order the person to surrender it to the law
enforcement agency that employs the officer within 24 hours after the person is
given notice of the suspension, and, upon the surrender, the officer’s
employing agency immediately shall forward the license or permit to the
Registrar;
         (c)   Verify the person’s current residence and, if it differs from
that on the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, notify
the Registrar of the change;
         (d)   Send to the Registrar, within 48 hours after the arrest of the
person, a sworn report that includes all of the following statements:
            1.   That the officer had reasonable grounds to believe that, at
the time of the arrest, the arrested person was operating a vehicle in
violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B) or a municipal OVI ordinance or for being
in physical control of a stationary vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   That the person was arrested and charged with a violation of
R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, or a municipal OVI ordinance;
            3.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that the
officer asked the person to take the designated chemical test or tests, advised
the person in accordance with this section of the consequences of submitting
to, or refusing to take, the test or tests, and gave the person the form
described in division (C) of this section;
            4.   Unless division (E)(1)(d)5. of this section applies, that
either the person refused to submit to the chemical test or tests or, unless
the arrest was for a violation of R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the person submitted to the chemical test or tests and the
test results indicate a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a controlled
substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time of the alleged
offense.
            5.   If the person was under arrest as described in division (A)(5)
of this section and the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance
with that division, that the person was under arrest as described in that
division, that the chemical test or tests were performed in accordance with
that division, and that test results indicated a prohibited concentration of
alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in
the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine at the time
of the alleged offense.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
arrested for a violation of §
73.03, R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, who
is asked by a law enforcement officer to submit to a chemical test or tests
under this section, and who submits to the test or tests, regardless of the
amount of alcohol, a controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled
substance that the test results indicate is present in the person’s whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
   (F)   The arresting officer shall give the officer’s sworn report that is
completed under this section to the arrested person at the time of the arrest,
or the Registrar of Motor Vehicles shall send the report to the person by
regular first class mail as soon as possible after receipt of the report, but
not later than 14 days after receipt of it. An arresting officer may give an
unsworn report to the arrested person at the time of the arrest provided the
report is complete when given to the arrested person and subsequently is sworn
to by the arresting officer. As soon as possible, but not later than 48 hours
after the arrest of the person, the arresting officer shall send a copy of the
sworn report to the court in which the arrested person is to appear on the
charge for which the person was arrested.
   (G)   The sworn report of an arresting officer completed under this section
is prima facie proof of the information and statements that it contains. It
shall be admitted and considered as prima facie proof of the information and
statements that it contains in any appeal under R.C. § 4511.197 relative to any
suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit or
nonresident operating privilege that results from the arrest covered by the
report.
(R.C. § 4511.192)
   (H)   (1)   A suspension of a person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit or nonresident operating privilege under this section for the
time described in R.C. § 4511.191(B) or (C) is effective immediately from the
time at which the arresting officer serves the notice of suspension upon the
arrested person. Any subsequent finding that the person is not guilty of the
charge that resulted in the person’s being requested to take the chemical test
or tests under division (A) of this section does not affect the suspension.
      (2)   If a person arrested for operating a vehicle in violation of §
73.01(A) or (B), R.C. § 4511.19(A) or (B), or any other municipal OVI
ordinance, or for being in physical control of a vehicle in violation of §
73.03 or R.C. § 4511.194 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
regardless of whether the person’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit or nonresident operating privilege is or is not suspended under R.C. §
4511.191(B) or (C) or R.C. Chapter 4510, the person’s initial appearance on the
charge resulting from the arrest shall be held within five days of the persons’
arrest or the issuance of the citation to him or her, subject to any
continuance granted by the court pursuant to R.C. § 4511.197 regarding the
issues specified in that section.
(R.C. § 4511.191(D))
Statutory reference:
   Continuous alcohol monitoring, see R.C. § 4511.198
   Disposition of fines, immobilization of vehicle and impoundment of license
plates, criminal forfeiture for municipal ordinance conviction, see R.C. §
4511.193
   Effect of refusal to submit to test, seizure of license, suspension periods,
appeal procedures, occupational driving privileges, and Indigent Drivers
Alcohol Treatment Funds, see R.C. § 4511.191
   Judicial pretrial suspension, initial appearance, see R.C. § 4511.196
   Mandatory suspension periods; immobilizing or disabling device; restricted
license, see R.C. § 4510.13
   Seizure of vehicles upon arrest, see R.C. § 4511.195
§ 73.03 PHYSICAL CONTROL OF VEHICLE WHILE UNDER THE INFLUENCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, PHYSICAL CONTROL means being in the driver’s
position of the front seat of a vehicle and having possession of the vehicle’s
ignition key or other ignition device.
   (B)   No person shall be in physical control of a vehicle if, at the time of
the physical control, any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains at least the concentration of alcohol specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)(1)(d), or (A)(1)(e).
      (3)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the person has
a concentration of a listed controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a
controlled substance in the person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or
urine that equals or exceeds the concentration specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j).
   (C)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution or juvenile court proceeding for a
violation of this section, if a law enforcement officer has administered a
field sobriety test to the person in physical control of the vehicle involved
in the violation and if it is shown by clear and convincing evidence that the
officer administered the test in substantial compliance with the testing
standards for any reliable, credible, and generally acceptable field sobriety
tests that were in effect at the time the tests were administered, including
but not limited to any testing standards then in effect what were set by the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The officer may testify concerning the results of the field
sobriety test so administered.
         (b)   The prosecution may introduce the results of the field sobriety
test so administered as evidence in any proceedings in the criminal prosecution
or juvenile court proceeding.
         (c)   If testimony is presented or evidence is introduced under
division (C)(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section and if the testimony or
evidence is admissible under the Rules of Evidence, the court shall admit the
testimony or evidence, and the trier of fact shall give it whatever weight the
trier of fact considers to be appropriate.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not limit or preclude a court,
in its determination of whether the arrest of a person was supported by
probable cause or its determination of any other matter in a criminal
prosecution or juvenile court proceeding of a type described in that division,
from considering evidence or testimony that is not otherwise disallowed by
division (C)(1) of this section.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having physical control of
a vehicle while under the influence, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In
addition to other sanctions imposed, the court may impose on the offender a
class seven suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident
operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7).
   (E)   Division (B)(3) of this section does not apply to a person who is in
physical control of a vehicle while the person has a concentration of a listed
controlled substance or a listed metabolite of a controlled substance in the
person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, or urine that equals or exceeds
the amount specified in §
73.01(A)(1)(j) if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs.
      (2)   The person injected, ingested, or inhaled the controlled substance
in accordance with the health professional’s directions.
(R.C. § 4511.194)
§ 73.04 DRIVING COMMERCIAL VEHICLE WITH IMPAIRED ALERTNESS OR ABILITY; USE OF
DRUGS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a commercial motor vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4506.01, or a commercial car or commercial tractor, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, while the person’s ability or alertness is so impaired by fatigue,
illness, or other causes that it is unsafe for the person to drive such
vehicle. No driver shall use any drug which would adversely affect the driver’s
ability or alertness.
   (B)   No owner, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, of a commercial motor vehicle,
commercial car or commercial tractor, or a person employing or otherwise
directing the driver of such vehicle, shall require or knowingly permit a
driver in any such condition described in division (A) of this section to drive
such vehicle upon any street or highway.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to one or more violations of this section or
R.C. § 4511.79, or R.C. § 4511.63, 4511.76, 4511.761, 4511.762, 4511.764, or
4511.77 or a municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any of
those sections, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
(R.C. § 4511.79)
§ 73.05 RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any street or highway in willful
or wanton disregard of the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.20)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.06 RECKLESS OPERATION OFF STREETS AND HIGHWAYS; COMPETITIVE OPERATION.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle on any public or private
property other than streets or highways in willful or wanton disregard of the
safety of persons or property.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of
vehicles on public or private property when the owner of such property
knowingly permits such operation thereon.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.201)
Cross-reference:
   License suspension, see §
71.25
§ 73.07 OPERATOR TO BE IN REASONABLE CONTROL.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, agricultural tractor, or
agricultural tractor that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of
farm machinery on any street, highway, or property open to the public for
vehicular traffic without being in reasonable control of the vehicle,
agricultural tractor, or unit of farm machinery.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of operating a motor vehicle
or agricultural tractor without being in control of it, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.202)
§ 73.08 IMMOBILIZING OR DISABLING DEVICE VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   No offender who has been granted limited or unlimited driving
privileges, during any period that the offender is required to operate only a
motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, shall request
or permit any other person to breathe into the device if it is an ignition
interlock device or another type of device that monitors the concentration of
alcohol in a person’s breath or to otherwise start the motor vehicle equipped
with the device, for the purpose of providing the offender with an operable
motor vehicle.
      (2)   No person shall breathe into an immobilizing or disabling device
that is an ignition interlock device or another type of device that monitors
the concentration of alcohol in a person’s breath or otherwise start a motor
vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device, for the purpose of
providing an operable motor vehicle to another person who has been granted
limited or unlimited driving privileges under the condition that the person
operate only a motor vehicle equipped with an immobilizing or disabling device.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall tamper with or circumvent the
operation of an immobilizing or disabling device.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an immobilizing or
disabling device violation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4510.44)
§ 73.09 STREET RACING, STUNT DRIVING AND STREET TAKEOVERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      BURNOUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is kept in a stationary position, but the wheels of the vehicle are
spun, which may cause the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit smoke
from the friction.
      DOUGHNUT. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
front or rear of the vehicle is rotated around the opposite set of wheels in a
continuous motion, which may cause a circular skid-mark pattern of rubber on
the driving surface, or the tires of the vehicle to become heated and emit
smoke from the friction, or both.
      DRIFTING. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the
vehicle is driven in a manner that causes a controlled, sideways skid during a
turn, with the front wheels pointing in a direction that is the opposite of the
direction of the turn.
      STREET RACING. The operation of two or more vehicles from a point side by
side at accelerating speeds in a competitive attempt to out-distance each other
or the operation of one or more vehicles over a common selected course, from
the same point to the same point, wherein timing is made of the participating
vehicles involving competitive accelerations or speeds. The operation of two or
more  vehicles side by side either at speeds in excess of prima-facie lawful
speeds established by R.C. § 4511.21(B)(1)(a) to (B)(9) or rapidly accelerating
from a common starting point to a speed in excess of such prima-facie lawful
speeds shall be prima-facie evidence of street racing.
      STREET TAKEOVER. Blocking or impeding the regular flow of vehicle or
pedestrian traffic on a public road, street, or highway or on private property
that is open to the general public for the purpose of street racing or stunt
driving.
      STUNT DRIVING. Performing or engaging in burnouts, doughnuts, drifting,
or wheelies, or allowing a passenger to ride either partially or fully outside
of the vehicle while operating that vehicle.
      WHEELIE. A maneuver performed while operating a vehicle whereby the front
wheel or wheels of the vehicle are raised off of the ground or whereby two
wheels that are on the same side of the vehicle are raised off of the ground.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly participate in street racing, stunt driving,
or street takeover upon any public road, street, or highway, or on private
property that is open to the general public.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover, a misdemeanor of the first degree. In addition to
any other sanctions, the court shall suspend the offender's driver's license,
commercial driver's license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege for not less than 30 days or more
than three years. No judge shall suspend the first 30 days of any suspension of
an offender's license, permit, or privilege imposed under this division.
   (D)   Persons rendering assistance in any manner to street racing, stunt
driving, or street takeover shall be equally charged as the participants.
   (E)   This section does not apply to the competitive operation of vehicles
on public or private property when the political subdivision with jurisdiction
of the location or owner of the property knowingly permits such operation
thereon.
(R.C. § 4511.251)
§ 73.10 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed greater or less
than is reasonable or proper, having due regard for the traffic, surface, and
width of the street or highway and any other conditions, and no person shall
drive any motor vehicle in and upon any street or highway at a greater speed
than will permit him or her to bring it to a stop within the assured clear
distance ahead.
   (B)   It is prima facie lawful, in the absence of a lower limit declared or
established pursuant to this section by the Director of Transportation or local
authorities, for the operator of a motor vehicle to operate the same at a speed
not exceeding the following:
      (1)   (a)   Twenty miles per hour in school zones during school recess
and while children are going to or leaving school during the opening or closing
hours, and when 20 miles per hour school speed limit signs are erected, except
that on controlled-access highways and expressways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by division (B)(4) of this section, and on freeways, if the right-of-way line
fence has been erected without pedestrian opening, the speed shall be governed
by divisions (B)(10) and (B)(11) of this section. The end of every school zone
may be marked by a sign indicating the end of the zone. Nothing in this section
or in the Manual and Specifications for a Uniform System of Traffic-Control
Devices shall be construed to require school zones to be indicated by signs
equipped with flashing or other lights, or giving other special notice of the
hours in which the school zone speed limit is in effect.
         (b)   As used in this section, SCHOOL means all of the following:
            1.    Any school chartered under R.C. § 3301.16;
            2.   Any nonchartered school that during the preceding year filed
with the Ohio Department of Education and Workforce in compliance with O.A.C. §
3301-35-08, a copy of the school's report for the parents of the school's
pupils certifying that the school meets state minimum standards for
nonchartered, nontax-supported schools and presents evidence of this filing to
the jurisdiction from which it is requesting the establishment of a school
zone;
            3.   Any special elementary school that in writing requests the
County Engineer to create a school zone at the location of the school. Upon
receipt of such written request, the County Engineer shall create a school zone
at that location by erecting appropriate signs;
            4.   Any preschool education program operated by an educational
service center that is located on a street or highway with a speed limit of 45
miles per hour or more, when the educational service center in writing requests
that the County Engineer create a school zone at the location of that program.
Upon receipt of such a written request, the County Engineer shall create a
school zone at that location by erecting the appropriate signs.
         (c)   As used in this section, SCHOOL ZONE means that portion of a
street or highway passing a school fronting upon the street or highway that is
encompassed by projecting the school property lines to the fronting street or
highway, and also includes that portion of a state highway. Upon request from
local authorities for streets and highways under their jurisdiction and that
portion of a state highway under the jurisdiction of the Director of
Transportation or a request from a County Engineer in the case of a school zone
for a special elementary school, the Director may extend the traditional school
zone boundaries. The distances in divisions (B)(1)(c)1. through (B)(1)(c)3.
below shall not exceed 300 feet per approach per direction, and are bounded by
whichever of the following distances or combination thereof the Director
approves as most appropriate:
            1.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school building
lines normal to the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            2.   The distance encompassed by projecting the school property
lines intersecting the fronting highway and extending a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction;
            3.   The distance encompassed by the special marking of the
pavement for a principal school pupil crosswalk plus a distance of 300 feet on
each approach direction of the highway.
         (d)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to invalidate the
Director’s initial action on August 9, 1976, establishing all school zones at
the traditional school zone boundaries defined by projecting school property
lines, except when those boundaries are extended as provided in divisions (B)
(1)(a) and (B)(1)(c) of this section.
         (e)   As used in this division, CROSSWALK has the meaning given that
term in R.C. § 4511.01(LL)(2).
         (f)   The Director may, upon request by resolution of the Legislative
Authority and upon submission by the municipality of such engineering, traffic,
and other information as the Director considers necessary, designate a school
zone on any portion of a state route lying within the municipality that
includes a crosswalk customarily used by children going to or leaving a school
during recess and opening and closing hours, whenever the distance, as measured
in a straight line, from the school property line nearest the crosswalk to the
nearest point of a crosswalk is no more than 1,320 feet. Such a school zone
shall include the distance encompassed by the crosswalk and extending 300 feet
in each appropriate direction of the state route.
         (g)   As used in this section, SPECIAL ELEMENTARY SCHOOL means a
school that meets all of the following:
            1.   It is not chartered and does not receive tax revenue from any
source.
            2.   It does not educate children beyond the eighth grade.
            3.   It is located outside the limits of a municipal corporation.
            4.   A majority of the total number of students enrolled at the
school are not related by blood.
            5.   The principal or other person in charge of the special
elementary school annually sends a report to the superintendent of the school
district in which the special elementary school is located indicating the total
number of students enrolled at the school, but otherwise the principal or other
person in charge does not report any other information or data to the
superintendent.
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour in all other portions of the
municipality, except on state routes outside business districts, through
highways outside business districts, and alleys;
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour on all state routes or through highways
within the municipality outside business districts, except as provided in
divisions (B)(4) and (B)(6) of this section;
      (4)   Fifty miles per hour on controlled-access highways and expressways
within the municipality, except as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)
(14), (B)(15), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (5)   Fifty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality,
other than highways within island jurisdictions as provided in division (B)(8)
of this section, highways as provided in divisions (B)(9) and (B)(10) of this
section, and highways, expressways and freeways as provided in divisions (B)
(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and (B)(16) of this section;
      (6)   Fifty miles per hour on state routes within the municipality
outside urban districts unless a lower prima facie speed is established as
further provided in this section;
      (7)   Fifteen miles per hour on all alleys within the municipality;
      (8)   Thirty-five miles per hour on highways outside the municipality
that are within an island jurisdiction;
      (9)   Thirty-five miles per hour on through highways, except state
routes, that are outside municipal corporations and that are within a national
park with boundaries extending through two or more counties;
      (10)   Sixty miles per hour on two-lane state routes outside municipal
corporations as established by the Director under R.C. § 4511.21(H)(2);
      (11)   Fifty-five miles per hour on freeways with paved shoulders inside
the municipality, other than freeways as provided in divisions (B)(14) and (B)
(16) of this section;
      (12)   Sixty miles per hour on rural expressways with traffic control
signals and on all portions of rural divided highways, except as provided in
divisions (B)(13) and (B)(14) of this section;
      (13)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all rural expressways without traffic
control signals;
      (14)   Seventy miles per hour on all rural freeways;
      (15)   Fifty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways in congested areas as determined by the Director and that are
located within a municipal corporation or within an interstate freeway
outerbelt, except as provided in division (B)(16) of this section;
      (16)   Sixty-five miles per hour on all portions of freeways or
expressways without traffic control signals in urbanized areas.
   (C)   It is prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the speed
limitations in divisions (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)
(8) and (B)(9) of this section or any declared or established pursuant to this
section by the Director or local authorities and it is unlawful for any person
to exceed any of the speed limitations in division (D) of this section. No
person shall be convicted of more than one violation of this section for the
same conduct, although violations of more than one provision of this section
may be charged in the alternative in a single affidavit.
   (D)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle upon a street or highway as
follows:
      (1)   At a speed exceeding 55 miles per hour, except upon a two-lane
state route as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway,
expressway or freeway as provided in divisions (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), and
(B)(16) of this section;
      (2)   At a speed exceeding 60 miles per hour upon a two-lane state route
as provided in division (B)(10) of this section and upon a highway as provided
in division (B)(12) of this section;
      (3)   At a speed exceeding 65 miles per hour upon an expressway as
provided in division (B)(13) of this section or upon a freeway as provided in
division (B)(16) of this section, except upon a freeway as provided in division
(B)(14) of this section;
      (4)   At a speed exceeding 70 miles per hour upon a freeway as provided
in division (B)(14) of this section;
      (5)   At a speed exceeding the posted speed limit upon a highway,
expressway or freeway for which the Director has determined and declared a
speed limit pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(I)(2) or (L)(2).
   (E)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(E), in every charge of violating this
section, the affidavit and warrant shall specify the time, place and speed at
which the defendant is alleged to have driven, and in charges made in reliance
upon division (C) of this section also the speed which division (B)(1)(a), (B)
(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared
or established pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21 declares is prima
facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation, except that in
affidavits where a person is alleged to have driven at a greater speed than
will permit the person to bring the vehicle to stop within the assured clear
distance ahead, the affidavit and warrant need not specify the speed at which
the defendant is alleged to have driven.
   (F)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(F), when a speed in excess of both a prima
facie limitation and a limitation in division (D) of this section is alleged,
the defendant shall be charged in a single affidavit, alleging a single act,
with a violation indicated of both division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4),
(B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of this section, or of a limit declared or
established pursuant to this section or R.C. § 4511.21 by the Director or local
authorities, and of the limitation in division (D) of this section. If the
court finds a violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(6),
(B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established pursuant to,
this section or R.C. § 4511.21 has occurred, it shall enter a judgment of
conviction under such division and dismiss the charge under division (D) of
this section. If it finds no violation of division (B)(1)(a), (B)(2), (B)(3),
(B)(4), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8) or (B)(9) of, or a limit declared or established
pursuant to, this section or R.C. § 4511.21, it shall then consider whether the
evidence supports a conviction under division (D) of this section.
   (G)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.21(G), points shall be assessed for a
violation of a limitation under division (D) of this section in accordance with
R.C. § 4510.036.
(R.C. § 4511.21(A) - (G))
   (H)   Whenever, in accordance with R.C. § 4511.21(H) through (N), the
maximum prima facie speed limitations as established herein have been altered,
either higher or lower, and the appropriate signs giving notice have been
erected as required, operators of motor vehicles shall be governed by the speed
limitations set forth on such signs. It is prima facie unlawful for any person
to exceed the speed limits posted upon such signs.
   (I)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL BUS. Means a motor vehicle designed for carrying more than
nine passengers and used for the transportation of persons for compensation.
      DIVIDED. Means a roadway having two or more travel lanes for vehicles
moving in opposite directions and that is separated by a median of more than
four feet, excluding turn lanes.
      INTERSTATE SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
      NONCOMMERCIAL BUS. Includes but is not limited to a school bus, or a
motor vehicle operated solely for the transportation of persons associated with
a charitable or nonprofit organization.
      OUTERBELT. A portion of a freeway that is part of the interstate system
and is located in the outer vicinity of a major municipal corporation or group
of municipal corporations, as designated by the Director.
      RURAL. Means an area outside urbanized areas and outside of a business or
urban district, and areas that extend within urbanized areas where the roadway
characteristics remain mostly unchanged from those outside the urbanized areas.
      URBANIZED AREA. Has the same meaning as in 23 U.S.C. § 101.
(R.C. § 4511.21(O))
   (J)   Speed limits for private roads and driveways.
      (1)   The owner of a private road or driveway located in a private
residential area containing 20 or more dwelling units may establish a speed
limit on the road or driveway by complying with all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   The speed limit is not less than 25 miles per hour and is
indicated by a sign that is in a proper position, is sufficiently legible to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person, and meets the specifications for the
basic speed limit sign included in the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation pursuant to R.C. § 4511.09;
         (b)   The owner has posted a sign at the entrance of the private road
or driveway that is in plain view and clearly informs persons entering the road
or driveway that they are entering private property, a speed limit has been
established for the road or driveway, and the speed limit is enforceable by law
enforcement officers under state law.
      (2)   No person shall operate a vehicle upon a private road or driveway
as provided in division (J)(1) of this section at a speed exceeding any speed
limit established and posted pursuant to division (J)(1).
      (3)   When a speed limit is established and posted in accordance with
division (J)(1) of this section, a law enforcement officer may apprehend a
person violating the speed limit of the residential area by utilizing any of
the means described in R.C. § 4511.091 or by any other accepted method of
determining the speed of a motor vehicle and may stop and charge the person
with exceeding the speed limit.
      (4)   Pursuant to R.C. § 4511.211(D), points shall be assessed for
violation of a speed limit established and posted in accordance with division
(J)(1) of this section in accordance with R.C. § 4510.036.
      (5)   As used in this division (J):
         OWNER. Includes but is not limited to a person who holds title to the
real property in fee simple, a condominium owners’ association, a property
owners’ association, a board of directors or trustees of a private community,
and a nonprofit corporation governing a private community.
         PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL AREA CONTAINING 20 OR MORE DWELLING UNITS. Does
not include a Chautauqua assembly as defined in R.C. § 4511.90.
(R.C. § 4511.211(A) - (E))
   (K)   Penalties.
      (1)   Divisions (A) through (I).
         (a)   A violation of any provision of divisions (A) through (I) of
this section is one of the following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(1)(a)2., (K)(1)
(a)3., (K)(1)(b), and (K)(1)(c) of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of any provision of
divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any provision of
any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any provision
of that section, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of any
provision of divisions (A) through (I) of this section, R.C. § 4511.21, or any
provision of any other municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to
any provision of that section, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (b)   If the offender operated a motor vehicle faster than 35 miles an
hour in a business district of the municipality, faster than 50 miles an hour
in other portions of the municipality, or faster than 35 miles an hour in a
school zone during recess or while children are going to or leaving school
during the school’s opening or closing hours, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. This division does not apply if penalties may be imposed under division
(K)(1)(a)2. or (K)(1)(a)3. of this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (K)(1)(a) of this section, if the
offender operated a motor vehicle in a construction zone where a sign was then
posted in accordance with R.C. § 4511.98, the court, in addition to all other
penalties provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a fine of two times
the usual amount imposed for the violation. No court shall impose a fine of two
times the usual amount imposed for the violation upon an offender if the
offender alleges, in an affidavit filed with the court prior to the offender’s
sentencing, that the offender is indigent and is unable to pay the fine imposed
pursuant to this division and if the court determines that the offender is an
indigent person and unable to pay the fine.
         (d)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.21(P))
      (2)   Division (J).
         (a)   A violation of division (J)(2) of this section is one of the
following:
            1.   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (K)(2)(a)2. and (K)
(2)(a)3. of this section, a minor misdemeanor;
            2.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division (J)(2) of
this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance that is
substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
            3.   If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of division
(J)(2) of this section, R.C. § 4511.211(B), or any other municipal ordinance
that is substantially equivalent to that division, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
         (b)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.211(F))
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of speed limits with approval of Director, see R.C. § 4511.21(H)
through (N)
   Arrest pending warrant when radar, electrical or mechanical timing device
used to determine violation, see R.C. § 4511.091
§ 73.11 SLOW SPEED OR STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall stop or operate a vehicle at such an unreasonably slow
speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic,
except when stopping or reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or to
comply with law.
   (B)   Whenever the Director of Transportation or local authorities determine
on the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation that slow speeds on
any part of a controlled-access highway, expressway, or freeway consistently
impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the Director or such
local authority may declare a minimum speed limit below which no person shall
operate a motor vehicle, except when necessary for safe operation or in
compliance with the law. No minimum speed limit established hereunder shall be
less than 30 miles per hour, greater than 50 miles per hour, nor effective
until the provisions of R.C. § 4511.21 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, relating to appropriate signs, have been fulfilled and local
authorities have obtained the approval of the Director.
   (C)   In a case involving a violation of this section, the trier of fact, in
determining whether the vehicle was being operated at an unreasonably slow
speed, shall consider the capabilities of the vehicle and its operator.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.22)
§ 73.12 EMERGENCY VEHICLES EXCEPTED FROM SPEED LIMITATION.
   The prima facie speed limitations set forth in R.C. § 4511.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance do not apply to emergency vehicles
or public safety vehicles when they are responding to emergency calls and are
equipped with and displaying at least one flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet
to the front of the vehicle, and when the drivers thereof sound audible signals
by bell, siren, or exhaust whistle. This section does not relieve the driver of
an emergency vehicle or public safety vehicle from the duty to drive with due
regard for the safety of all persons using the street or highway.
(R.C. § 4511.24)
§ 73.13 SPEED REGULATIONS ON BRIDGES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle over any bridge or other
elevated structure constituting a part of a highway at a speed which is greater
than the maximum speed that can be maintained with safety to such bridge or
structure, when such structure is posted with signs as provided in this
section.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation upon request from any local
authority shall, or upon its own initiative may, conduct an investigation of
any bridge or other elevated structure constituting a part of a highway, and if
it finds that such structure cannot with safety withstand traffic traveling at
the speed otherwise permissible under this Traffic Code, the Department shall
determine and declare the maximum speed of traffic which such structure can
withstand, and shall cause or permit suitable signs stating such maximum speed
to be erected and maintained at a distance of a least 100 feet before each end
of the structure.
      (3)   Upon the trial of any person charged with a violation of this
section, proof of such determination of the maximum speed by the Department and
the existence of such signs shall constitute prima facie evidence of the
maximum speed which can be maintained with safety to such bridge or structure.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.23)
§ 73.14 PRESENTING FALSE NAME OR INFORMATION TO OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly present, display, or orally communicate a
false name, social security number, or date of birth to a law enforcement
officer who is in the process of issuing to the person a traffic ticket or
complaint.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 4513.361)
§ 73.15 PROHIBITION AGAINST RESISTING OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall resist, hinder, obstruct, or abuse any sheriff,
constable, or other official while that official is attempting to arrest
offenders under any provision of this Title VII. No person shall interfere with
any person charged under any provision of this Title VII with the enforcement
of the law relative to public highways.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.36)
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the hindrance,
obstruction, resistance, or interference alleged consisted of constitutionally
protected speech only.
§ 73.16 OPERATION RESTRICTED FOR MINI-TRUCKS AND LOW-SPEED, UNDER-SPEED, OR
UTILITY VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a low-speed vehicle upon any street or
highway having an established speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour.
      (2)   No person shall operate an under-speed or utility vehicle or a
mini-truck upon any street or highway except as follows:
         (a)   Upon a street or highway having an established speed limit not
greater than 35 miles per hour and only upon such streets or highways where the
municipality has granted permission for such operation in accordance with
division (E) of this section;
         (b)   A state park or political subdivision employee or volunteer
operating a utility vehicle exclusively within the boundaries of state parks or
political subdivision parks for the operation or maintenance of state or
political subdivision park facilities.
      (3)   No person shall operate a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter upon
any street or highway having an established speed limit greater than 45 miles
per hour.
   (B)   This section does not prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   A person operating a low-speed, under-speed, or utility vehicle or
a mini-truck from proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway
having a speed limit greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   A person operating a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter from
proceeding across an intersection of a street or highway having a speed limit
greater than 45 miles per hour.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the municipality from adopting
more stringent local ordinances, resolutions, or regulations governing the
operation of a low-speed vehicle or a mini-truck, or a motor-driven cycle or
motor scooter.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.214)
   (E)   By ordinance or resolution, the municipality may authorize the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on a public street
or highway under its jurisdiction. The municipality shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Limit the operation of those vehicles to streets and highways
having an established speed limit not greater than 35 miles per hour;
      (2)   Require the vehicle owner who wishes to operate an under-speed or
utility vehicle or a mini-truck on the public streets or highways to submit the
vehicle to an inspection conducted by a local law enforcement agency that
complies with inspection requirements established by the Department of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.02;
      (3)   Permit the operation on public streets or highways of only those
vehicles that successfully pass the required vehicle inspection, are registered
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4503, and are titled in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 4505;
      (4)   Notify the Director of Public Safety, in a manner the Director
determines, of the authorization for the operation of under-speed or utility
vehicles or mini-trucks.
   (F)   The municipality may establish additional requirements for the
operation of under-speed or utility vehicles or mini-trucks on its streets and
highways.
(R.C. § 4511.215)
   (G)   Notwithstanding divisions (A) through (F) of this section, a person
may operate a utility vehicle on any public roads or right-of-way, other than a
freeway, when traveling from one farm field to another for agricultural
purposes if the vehicle is displaying a triangular slow-moving vehicle emblem
as described in R.C. § 4513.112.
(R.C. § 4511.216)
   (H)   (1)   Except as provided in this division (H) and divisions (E) and
(F) of this section, no person shall operate a mini-truck within this
municipality.
      (2)   A person may operate a mini-truck on a farm for agricultural
purposes only when the owner of the farm qualifies for the current agricultural
use valuation tax credit. A mini-truck may be operated by or on behalf of such
a farm owner on public roads and rights-of-way only when traveling from one
farm field to another.
      (3)   A person may operate a mini-truck on property owned or leased by a
dealer who sells mini-trucks at retail.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (H) shall be penalized as provided
in division (D) of this section.
(R.C. § 4519.401)
§ 73.17 SPECIALIZED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No specialized motor vehicles, including low-speed and under-speed
vehicles, motor scooters, cab-enclosed motorcycles and mini trucks, shall be
operated on any street, highway or alley within the village, except at set
forth in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Low-speed specialized motor vehicles (modified golf carts) shall be
permitted to operate on all streets, highways or alleys within the village,
except they shall not be permitted on North Wooster Avenue or South Wooster
Avenue except to cross Wooster Avenue at the traffic lights at First Street and
Second Street North. Further, the operation of low-speed specialized motor
vehicles (modified golf carts) is conditioned upon them being street legal, and
meeting all of the requirements of the state statutes that apply to other motor
vehicles in the state, including, but not being limited to, the requirement
that the operator must have a driver license, the vehicle must be registered,
display license plates and shall be equipped with headlights, tail lights,
brake lights, turn signals, rearview mirrors and any other item required of
motor vehicles within the state, and must be registered with the Police
Department.
   (C)   The Police Department is hereby authorized to conduct the inspection
of low-speed specialized motor vehicles (modified golf carts) which are
permitted to be operated on streets, highways and alleys within the village;
provided they meet the requirements and exceptions set forth in this section,
and established therein. The inspections shall be conducted in accordance with
the inspection sheet attached hereto.
   (D)   All inspections shall be conducted by the Police Department at the
police station, and individuals wishing to have a low-speed specialized motor
vehicle (modified golf carts) inspected for the purposes of being designated
street legal and meeting the requirements of state law and village ordinances,
shall do so by contacting the Police Department to establish a date and time
for said inspection, which shall be conducted in accordance with the attached
inspection sheet.
   (E)   Upon the inspection taking place, a fee of $25, payable to the
village, shall be paid to cover the additional cost connected with the
inspections set forth herein.
   (F)   Violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be deemed a
misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more than $500,
imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(Ord. O-32-2016, passed 12-28-2016; Ord. O-06-2017, passed 3-8-2017; Ord. O-16-
2017, passed 6-20-2017)
§ 73.18 SPEED LIMITS WITHIN VILLAGE PARK.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of ten
mph upon any streets, traveled portions or other properties located within the
confines of the Strasburg-Franklin Village Park.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT
§ 73.30 FAILURE TO STOP AFTER ACCIDENT.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision with
persons or property on a public road or highway, the operator of the motor
vehicle, having knowledge of the accident or collision, immediately shall stop
the operator’s motor vehicle at the scene of the accident or collision. The
operator shall remain at the scene of the accident or collision until the
operator has given the operator’s name and address and, if the operator is not
the owner, the name and address of the owner of that motor vehicle, together
with the registered number of that motor vehicle, to all of the following:
         (a)   Any person injured in the accident or collision;
         (b)   The operator, occupant, owner, or attendant of any motor vehicle
damaged in the accident or collision;
         (c)   The police officer at the scene of the accident or collision.
      (2)   In the event an injured person is unable to comprehend and record
the information required to be given under division (A)(1) of this section, the
other operator involved in the accident or collision shall notify the nearest
police authority concerning the location of the accident or collision, and the
operator’s name, address, and the registered number of the motor vehicle the
operator was operating. The operator shall remain at the scene of the accident
or collision until a police officer arrives, unless removed from the scene by
an emergency vehicle operated by a political subdivision or an ambulance.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required to be given in this section, in writing, to a
conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident. Except as otherwise provided in division (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after an accident is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after an accident is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.02)
§ 73.31 STOPPING AFTER ACCIDENT ON OTHER THAN PUBLIC ROADS OR HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   In the case of a motor vehicle accident or collision resulting
in injury or damage to persons or property on any public or private property
other than a public road or highway, the operator of the motor vehicle, having
knowledge of the accident or collision, shall stop at the scene of the accident
or collision. Upon request of any person who is injured or damaged, or any
other person, the operator shall give that person the operator’s name and
address, and, if the operator is not the owner, the name and address of the
owner of that motor vehicle, together with the registered number of that motor
vehicle, and, if available, exhibit the operator’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license.
      (2)   If the operator of the motor vehicle involved in the accident or
collision does not provide the information specified in division (A)(1) of this
section, the operator shall give that information, within 24 hours after the
accident or collision, to the police department of the city or village in which
the accident or collision occurred, or if it occurred outside the corporate
limits of a city or village, to the sheriff of the county in which the accident
or collision occurred.
      (3)   If the accident or collision is with an unoccupied or unattended
motor vehicle, the operator who collides with the motor vehicle shall securely
attach the information required under division (A)(1) of this section, in
writing, to a conspicuous place in or on the unoccupied or unattended motor
vehicle.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident. Except as otherwise provided
in division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section, failure to stop after a nonpublic
road accident is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   If the accident or collision results in serious physical harm to a
person, failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the accident or collision results in the death of a person,
failure to stop after a nonpublic road accident is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (4)   In all cases, the court, in addition to any other penalties
provided by law, shall impose upon the offender a class five suspension of the
offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction
permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(5). No judge shall suspend the first six months
of suspension of an offender’s license, permit, or privilege required by this
division.
      (5)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to R.C. §
2929.18 or 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic loss
arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate result
of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or after
committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.021)
§ 73.32 ACCIDENT INVOLVING DAMAGE TO REALTY.
   (A)   (1)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
damage to real property, or personal property attached to real property,
legally upon or adjacent to a public road or highway immediately shall stop and
take reasonable steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of the
property of that fact, of the driver’s name and address, and of the
registration number of vehicle the driver is driving and, upon request and if
available, shall exhibit the driver’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license.
      (2)   If the owner or person in charge of the property cannot be located
after reasonable search, the driver of the vehicle involved in the accident
resulting in damage to the property, within 24 hours after accident, shall
forward to the police department of the municipality the same information
required to be given to the owner or person in control of the property and give
the location of the accident and a description of the damage insofar as it is
known.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
failure to stop after an accident involving the property of others, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   The offender shall provide the court with proof of financial
responsibility as defined in R.C. § 4509.01. If the offender fails to provide
that proof of financial responsibility, then, in addition to any other
penalties provided by law, the court may order restitution pursuant to §
130.99(G) or R.C. § 2929.28 in an amount not exceeding $5,000 for any economic
loss arising from an accident or collision that was the direct and proximate
result of the offender’s operation of the motor vehicle before, during, or
after committing the offense charged under this section.
(R.C. § 4549.03)
§ 73.33 FAILURE TO REPORT ACCIDENT.
   (A)   No person shall fail to report a motor vehicle accident as required
under state or local law.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4509.74)
CHAPTER 74: EQUIPMENT AND LOADS
Section
Equipment
   
74.01   Unsafe vehicles, prohibition against operation
   
74.02   Bumpers on motor vehicles
   
74.03   Lighted lights required
   
74.04   Headlights
   
74.05   Tail lights and illumination of rear license plate
   
74.06   Red reflectors required
   
74.07   Safety lighting of commercial vehicles
   
74.08   Stoplight regulations
   
74.09   Obscured lights on vehicles
   
74.10   Red light or flag required
   
74.11   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.12   Lights, emblems, and reflectors on slow-moving vehicles, farm
machinery, agricultural tractors, and animal-drawn vehicles
   
74.13   Spotlight and auxiliary driving lights
   
74.14   Cowl, fender, and back-up lights
   
74.15   Two lights displayed
   
74.16   Headlights required
   
74.17   Lights of less intensity
   
74.18   Number of lights permitted; red and flashing lights
   
74.19   Standards for lights on snow removal equipment and oversize vehicles
   
74.20   Flashing lights permitted for certain types of vehicles
   
74.21   Lights and sign on transportation for preschool children
   
74.22   Focus and aim of headlights
   
74.23   Brake equipment; specifications
   
74.24   Brake fluid
   
74.25   Minimum standards for brakes and components
   
74.26   Horns, sirens, and warning devices
   
74.27   Mufflers; excessive smoke or gas
   
74.28   Rearview mirrors
   
74.29   Windshields and wipers
   
74.30   Solid tire requirements
   
74.31   Requirements for safety glass in motor vehicles; use of tinted glass or
reflectorized material
   
74.32   Directional signals
   
74.33   Installation and sale of seat safety belts required; definition
   
74.34   Requirements for extra signal equipment
   
74.35   Display of warning devices on disabled vehicles
   
74.36   Requirements for vehicles transporting explosives
   
74.37   Studded tires; seasonal use permitted
   
74.38   Safety inspection decals for buses
   
74.39   Air bags
Loads
   
74.50   Permit required to exceed load limits
   
74.51   Limitation of load extension on left side of vehicle
   
74.52   All loads shall be properly secured
   
74.53   Towing requirements; exception to size and weight restrictions
   
74.54   Weighing of vehicle; removal of excess load
   
74.55   Operation of vehicle exceeding weight limits prohibited
   
74.56   Load limits
   
74.57   Maximum width, height, and length
   
74.58   Statement of gross vehicle weight
   
74.59   Wheel protectors required on heavy commercial vehicles
   
74.60   Liability for damages; prosecution; application of monies
   
74.61   Weight exceptions for certain vehicles
Statutory reference:
   Exemption of certain vehicles from emission, noise control and fuel
standards, see R.C. § 4513.41
   Exemption of collector’s or historical vehicles from equipment standards,
see R.C. § 4513.38
   Motorcycles, protective eye devices required for operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
   Notice of arrest of certain commercial drivers, see R.C. § 5577.14
   Snowmobiles and all-purpose vehicles, equipment, see O.A.C. § 4501-29-01
   Vehicle lighting, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-15
EQUIPMENT
§ 74.01 UNSAFE VEHICLES, PROHIBITION AGAINST OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move, or cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on any highway any vehicle or combination of vehicles which is
in such unsafe condition as to endanger any person.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.02(A), (H))
§ 74.02 BUMPERS ON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT RATING. Means the manufacturer’s gross vehicle
weight rating established for that vehicle.
      MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      MULTIPURPOSE PASSENGER VEHICLE. Means a motor vehicle with motive power,
except a motorcycle, designed to carry ten persons or less, that is constructed
either on a truck chassis or with special features for occasional off-road
operation.
      PASSENGER CAR. Means any motor vehicle with motive power, designed for
carrying ten persons or less, except a multipurpose passenger vehicle or
motorcycle.
      TRUCK. Means every motor vehicle, except trailers and semitrailers,
designed and used to carry property and having a gross vehicle weight rating of
10,000 pounds or less.
   (B)   Rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety, in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 119, shall govern the maximum bumper height or, in the absence of
bumpers and in cases where bumper height have been lowered or modified, the
maximum height to the bottom of the frame rail of any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck.
   (C)   No person shall operate upon a street or highway any passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle or truck registered in this state that does not
conform to the requirements of this section or any applicable rule adopted
pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021.
   (D)   No person shall modify any motor vehicle registered in this state in
such a manner as to cause the vehicle body or chassis to come in contact with
the ground, expose the fuel tank to damage from collision, or cause the wheels
to come in contact with the body under normal operation, and no person shall
disconnect any part of the original suspension system of the vehicle to defeat
the safe operation of that system.
   (E)   Nothing contained in this section or in the rules adopted pursuant to
R.C. § 4513.021 shall be construed to prohibit either of the following:
      (1)   The installation upon a passenger car, multipurpose passenger
vehicle or truck registered in this state of heavy duty equipment, including
shock absorbers and overload springs:
      (2)   The operation on a street or highway of a passenger car,
multipurpose passenger vehicle, or truck registered in this state with normal
wear to the suspension system if the normal wear does not adversely affect the
control of the vehicle.
   (F)   This section and the rules adopted pursuant to R.C. § 4513.021 do not
apply to any specially designed or modified passenger car, multipurpose
passenger vehicle, or truck when operated off a street or highway in races and
similar events.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.021)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum height on bumpers, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-43
§ 74.03 LIGHTED LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every vehicle, other than a motorized bicycle, operated upon a street
or highway within this state shall display lighted lights and illuminating
devices as required by R.C. §§ 4513.04 to 4513.37 during all of the following
times:
      (1)   The time from sunset to sunrise;
      (2)   At any other time when, due to insufficient natural light or
unfavorable atmospheric conditions, persons, vehicles, and substantial objects
on the highway are not discernible at a distance of 1,000 feet ahead;
      (3)   At any time when the windshield wipers of the vehicle are in use
because of precipitation on the windshield.
   (B)   Every motorized bicycle shall display at such times lighted lights
meeting the rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4511.521. No motor vehicle, during any time specified in this section, shall be
operated upon a street or highway within this state using only parking lights
as illumination.
   (C)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the distance
from which certain lamps and devices shall render objects visible, or within
which such lamps or devices shall be visible, such distance shall be measured
upon a straight level unlighted highway under normal atmospheric conditions
unless a different condition is expressly stated.
   (D)   Whenever in such sections a requirement is declared as to the mounted
height of lights or devices, it shall mean from the center of such light or
device to the level ground upon which the vehicle stands.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no law
enforcement officer shall cause the operator of a vehicle being operated upon a
street or highway within this state to stop the vehicle solely because the
officer observes that a violation of division (A)(3) of this section has been
or is being committed or for the sole purpose of issuing a ticket, citation, or
summons for a violation of that division, or causing the arrest of or
commencing a prosecution of a person for a violation of that division.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.03)
§ 74.04 HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, shall be equipped
with at least two headlights with at least one near each side of the front of
the motor vehicle.
      (2)   Every motorcycle shall be equipped with at least one and not more
than two headlights.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.04)
§ 74.05 TAIL LIGHTS AND ILLUMINATION OF REAR LICENSE PLATE.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, pole trailer or
vehicle which is being drawn at the end of a train of vehicles shall be
equipped with at least one tail light mounted on the rear which, when lighted,
shall emit a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear,
provided that in the case of a train of vehicles only the tail light on the
rearmost vehicle need be visible from the distance specified.
      (2)   Either a tail light or a separate light shall be so constructed and
placed as to illuminate with a white light the rear registration plate, when
such registration plate is required, and render it legible from a distance of
50 feet to the rear. Any tail light, together with any separate light for
illuminating the rear registration plate, shall be so wired as to be lighted
whenever the headlights or auxiliary driving lights are lighted, except where
separate lighting systems are provided for trailers for the purpose of
illuminating such registration plate.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.05)
§ 74.06 RED REFLECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   Every new motor vehicle sold after September 6, 1941, and
operated on a highway, other than a commercial tractor to which a trailer or
semitrailer is attached, shall carry at the rear, either as a part of the tail
lamps or separately, two red reflectors meeting the requirements of this
section, except that vehicles of the type mentioned in R.C. § 4513.07 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be equipped with reflectors
as required by the regulations provided for in that section.
      (2)   Every such reflector shall be of such size and characteristics and
so maintained as to be visible at night from all distances within 300 feet to
50 feet from such vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.06)
§ 74.07 SAFETY LIGHTING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   When the Director of Public Safety prescribes and promulgates
regulations relating to clearance lights, marker lights, reflectors and stop
lights on buses, trucks, commercial tractors, trailers, semitrailers and pole
trailers, when operated upon any highway, these vehicles shall be equipped as
required by such regulations, and such equipment shall be lighted at all times
mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
except that clearance lights and side marker lights need not be lighted on any
such vehicle when it is operated within the municipality where there is
sufficient light to reveal any person or substantial object on the highway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (2)   Such equipment shall be in addition to all other lights
specifically required by R.C. §§ 4513.03 through 4513.16, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Vehicles operated under the jurisdiction of the Public Utilities
Commission are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.07)
§ 74.08 STOPLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle, trailer, semitrailer, and pole trailer when
operated upon a highway shall be equipped with two or more stop lights, except
that passenger cars manufactured or assembled prior to January 1, 1967,
motorcycles, and motor-driven cycles shall be equipped with at least one stop
light. Stop lights shall be mounted on the rear of the vehicle, actuated upon
application of the service brake, and may be incorporated with other rear
lights. Such stop lights when actuated shall emit a red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear; provided that in the case of a train of
vehicles only the stop lights on the rearmost vehicle need be visible from the
distance specified.
      (2)   Such stop lights when actuated shall give a steady warning light to
the rear of a vehicle or train of vehicles to indicate the intention of the
operator to diminish the speed of or stop a vehicle or train of vehicles.
      (3)   When stop lights are used as required by this section, they shall
be constructed or installed so as to provide adequate and reliable illumination
and shall conform to the appropriate rules and regulations established under
R.C. § 4513.19.
      (4)   Historical motor vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4503.181, not
originally manufactured with stop lights, are not subject to this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.071)
§ 74.09 OBSCURED LIGHTS ON VEHICLES.
   Whenever motor and other vehicles are operated in combination during the
time that lights are required, any light, except tail lights, which by reason
of its location on a vehicle of the combination would be obscured by another
vehicle of the combination, need not be lighted, but this section does not
affect the requirement that lighted clearance lights be displayed on the front
of the foremost vehicle required to have clearance lights or that all lights
required on the rear of the rearmost vehicle of any combination shall be
lighted.
(R.C. § 4513.08)
§ 74.10 RED LIGHT OR FLAG REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or
more beyond the bed or body of this vehicle, there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, a red light or lantern plainly
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red
light or lantern required by this section is in addition to the red rear light
required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the
extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not less than 16 inches
square.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.09)
§ 74.11 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Except in case of an emergency, whenever a vehicle is parked or
stopped upon a roadway open to traffic or a shoulder adjacent thereto, whether
attended or unattended, during the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, such vehicle shall be equipped
with one or more lights which shall exhibit a white or amber light on the
roadway side visible from a distance of 500 feet to the front of such vehicle,
and a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear. No lights need
be displayed upon any such vehicle when it is stopped or parked within the
municipality where there is sufficient light to reveal any person or
substantial object within a distance of 500 feet upon such highway. Any lighted
headlights upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or dimmed.
(R.C. § 4513.10)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.12 LIGHTS, EMBLEMS, AND REFLECTORS ON SLOW-MOVING VEHICLES, FARM
MACHINERY, AGRICULTURAL TRACTORS, AND ANIMAL-DRAWN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BOAT TRAILER. Means any vehicle designed and used exclusively to
transport a boat between a place of storage and a marina, or in and around a
marina, when drawn or towed on a street or highway for a distance of no more
than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE and SMV. Mean a boat trailer, unit of farm machinery,
road construction machinery, or other machinery designed by the manufacturer to
operate at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less. The term does not include a
bicycle, motorized bicycle, electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.11)
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate
either of the following vehicles unless it is equipped with and displays the
lamps described in division (B)(2) of this section:
         (a)   A vehicle not specifically required to be equipped with lamps or
other lighting devices by R.C. §§ 4513.03 to 4513.10;
         (b)   A vehicle referred to in R.C. § 4513.02(G).
      (2)   Vehicles described in division (B)(1) of this section shall be
equipped with both of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the vehicle, or as an alternative, one lamp
displaying a red light visible from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet to
the rear and two red reflectors visible from all distances of 600 feet to 100
feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (3)   (a)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall
operate a multi- wheel agricultural tractor model year 2001 or earlier on a
street or highway unless it is equipped with and displays reflectors and
illuminated amber lamps so that the extreme left and right projections of the
tractor are indicated by all of the following:
            1.   Flashing lamps displaying amber light, visible to the front
and the rear. The lamps need not flash simultaneously and need not flash in
conjunction with any directional signals of the tractor.
            2.   Amber reflectors, all visible to the front;
            3.   Red reflectors, all visible to the rear.
         (b)   Rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety under R.C. §
4513.111 governing the lamps and reflectors described in division (B)(3)(a) of
this section and their placement correlate with and, as far as possible,
conform with paragraphs 4.1.4.1, 4.1.7.1, and 4.1.7.2 respectively of the
American Society of Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S279.10 OCT 98,
Lighting and Marking of Agricultural Equipment on Highways.
      (4)   At the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, no person shall operate a
unit of farm machinery model year 2002 or later on a street or highway unless
it is equipped with and displays markings and illuminated lamps that meet or
exceed the lighting, illumination, and marking standards and specifications
that are applicable to that type of farm machinery for the unit’s model year
specified in the American society of agricultural engineers standard ANSI/ASAE
S279.10 OCT 98, lighting and marking of agricultural equipment on highways.
      (5)   Any unit of farm machinery designed by its manufacturer to operate
at a speed of 25 miles per hour or greater or any SMV may be equipped with and
display a red flashing light that is visible from a distance of not less than
1,000 feet to the rear at all times specified in R.C. § 4513.03. When a double-
faced light is used, it shall display amber light to the front and red light to
the rear.
      (6)   Lights and reflectors required under divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) of
this section and authorized under division (B)(5) of this section are in
addition to other lights required or permitted by this division (B) or R.C. §
4513.17.
      (7)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 that establish standards and specifications for lamps and
reflectors required or authorized by this section. Lamps and reflectors
required or authorized by this section shall meet those standards and
specifications.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to a bicycle, motorized bicycle,
electric bicycle, or animal-drawn vehicle.
      (9)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.111)
   (C)   Slow-moving vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
operate an SMV on a street or highway as follows:
         (a)   At a speed exceeding 25 miles per hour;
         (b)   Without displaying the triangular SMV emblem mounted in
accordance with division (C)(2) of this section.
      (2)   The SMV emblem shall be mounted so as to be visible from a distance
of not less than 500 feet to the rear. In accordance with R.C. Chapter 119, the
Ohio Director of Public Safety shall adopt standards and specifications for the
design and position of mounting the SMV emblem. The standards and
specifications for the SMV emblem correlate with and, so far as possible,
conform with those approved by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers.
      (3)   A person may operate an SMV on a street or highway without
displaying the triangular SMV emblem when any of the following apply:
         (a)   The SMV is being used in actual construction and maintenance
work in an area guarded by a flagperson, or where flares are used.
         (b)   The SMV is operating or traveling within the limits of a
construction area designated by the Ohio Director of Transportation, a city
engineer, or the county engineer of the several counties, when such
construction area is marked in accordance with requirements of the Ohio
Director of Transportation and the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices,
as set forth in R.C. § 4511.09.
      (4)   No person shall display an SMV emblem on any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle not required to use the SMV emblem by this division
(C) or R.C. § 4513.113 or 4513.114;
         (b)   An SMV being transported upon any other vehicle;
         (c)   Any stationary object on the highway.
      (5)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate an SMV, except a unit
designed to be completely mounted on a primary power unit that is manufactured
or assembled on or after April 1, 1966, unless it is equipped with an SMV
emblem mounting device.
      (6)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.112)
   (D)   Farm machinery and agricultural tractors.
      (1)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate on a street or
highway any unit of farm machinery that is designed by its manufacturer to
operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless the unit displays both
of the following:
         (a)   The SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
         (b)   A speed identification symbol that does both of the following:
            1.   Meets the specifications contained in the American Society of
Agricultural Engineers Standard ANSI/ASAE S584 JAN2005, Agricultural Equipment:
Speed Identification Symbol (SIS);
            2.   Indicates the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the
unit of farm machinery is designed by its manufacturer to operate.
      (2)   No person operating a tractor on a street or highway that is
designed by its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per
hour and that is towing, pulling, or otherwise drawing a unit of farm machinery
while operating at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour shall fail to display
both of the following on the unit of farm machinery:
         (a)   The SMV emblem;
         (b)   The speed identification symbol that matches the speed
identification symbol required to be displayed on the agricultural tractor.
      (3)   No person shall operate an agricultural tractor that is designed by
its manufacturer to operate at a speed greater than 25 miles per hour unless
the person possesses documentation published or provided by the manufacturer
indicating the maximum speed in miles per hour at which the manufacturer
designed the agricultural tractor to operate.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.113)
   (E)   Animal-drawn vehicles.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03, both
of the following:
         (a)   At least one lamp displaying a white light visible from a
distance of not less than 1,000 feet to the front of the animal-drawn vehicle;
         (b)   Two lamps displaying red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear of the animal-drawn vehicle, or as an
alternative, one lamp displaying a red light visible from a distance of not
less than 1,000 feet to the rear and two red reflectors visible from all
distances of 600 feet to one hundred feet to the rear when illuminated by the
lawful lower beams of headlamps.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) of this section, no
person shall operate an animal-drawn vehicle on a street or highway unless it
is equipped with and displays, at all times, all of the following:
         (a)   One yellow flashing lamp displaying yellow light that is visible
from a distance of not less than 1,000 feet and that is mounted in either of
the following positions:
            1.   On the top most portion of the rear of the animal-drawn
vehicle;
            2.   On the top of the animal-drawn vehicle.
         (b)   At least one of the following:
            1.   An SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. § 4513.112(B);
            2.   Micro-prism reflective tape that is visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet to the rear when illuminated by the lawful lower beams
of headlamps;
            3.   Both an SMV emblem and micro-prism reflective tape, as
specified in this division.
         (c)   Lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by this section
shall meet standards and specifications adopted by the Ohio Director of Public
Safety under R.C. § 4513.114.
      (3)   The Ohio Director of Public Safety, in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119, shall adopt rules establishing standards and specifications for the
position and mounting of the lamps and micro-prism reflective tape required by
R.C. § 4513.114. The rules permit the micro-prism reflective tape to be red,
amber, white, or silver in color.
      (4)   (a)   Divisions (E)(1) and (E)(2) of this section do not apply to
the operator of animal-drawn agricultural equipment who is not transporting any
livestock or a person other than the operator.
         (b)   No operator described in division (E)(4)(a) of this section
shall operate animal-drawn agricultural equipment unless it is equipped with
and displays, at all times, the SMV emblem mounted in accordance with R.C. §
4513.112(B).
         (c)   As used in division (E)(4) of this section, “animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” means equipment drawn by the muscular power of an
animal that is used solely for agricultural purposes. “Animal-drawn
agricultural equipment” includes any of the following:
            1.   A plow;
            2.   A manure spreader;
            3.   A thresher.
      (5)   Whoever violates this division (E) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.114)
   (F)   Strict liability offenses. The offenses established under this section
are strict liability offenses, and R.C. § 2901.20 does not apply. The
designation of these offenses as strict liability offenses shall not be
construed to imply that any other offense, for which there is no specified
degree of culpability, is not a strict liability offense.
(R.C. § 4513.115)
§ 74.13 SPOTLIGHT AND AUXILIARY DRIVING LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one
spotlight and every lighted spotlight shall be so aimed and used upon
approaching another vehicle that no part of the high- intensity portion of the
beam will be directed to the left of the prolongation of the extreme left side
of the vehicle, nor more than 100 feet ahead of the vehicle.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than three
auxiliary driving lights mounted on the front of the vehicle. Any such lights
which do not conform to the specifications for auxiliary driving lights and the
regulations for their use prescribed by the Director of Public Safety shall not
be used.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.12)
§ 74.14 COWL, FENDER, AND BACK-UP LIGHTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with side cowl or fender
lights which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with lights on each side thereof
which shall emit a white or amber light without glare.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle may be equipped with back-up lights, either
separately or in combination with another light. No back-up lights shall be
continuously lighted when the motor vehicle is in forward motion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.13)
§ 74.15 TWO LIGHTS DISPLAYED.
   (A)   At all times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, at least two lighted lights shall be displayed, one near
each side of the front of every motor vehicle, except when such vehicle is
parked subject to the regulations governing lights on parked vehicles.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.14)
§ 74.16 HEADLIGHTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle is being operated on a roadway or shoulder
adjacent thereto during the times specified in R.C. § 4513.03 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the driver shall use a
distribution of light, or composite beam, directed high enough and of
sufficient intensity to reveal persons, vehicles and substantial objects at a
safe distance in advance of the vehicle, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Whenever the driver of a vehicle approaches an oncoming vehicle,
such driver shall use a distribution of light, or composite beam, so aimed that
the glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of the oncoming driver.
      (2)   Every new motor vehicle registered in this state which has
multiple-beam road lighting equipment shall be equipped with a beam indicator,
which shall be lighted whenever the uppermost distribution of light from the
headlights is in use, and shall not otherwise be lighted. This indicator shall
be so designed and located that, when lighted, it will be readily visible
without glare to the driver of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.15)
§ 74.17 LIGHTS OF LESS INTENSITY.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle may be operated under the conditions specified in
R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance when it is
equipped with two lighted lights upon the front thereof capable of revealing
persons and substantial objects 75 feet ahead, in lieu of lights required in
R.C. § 4513.14 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, provided that
such vehicle shall not be operated at a speed in excess of 20 miles per hour.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.16)
§ 74.18 NUMBER OF LIGHTS PERMITTED; RED AND FLASHING LIGHTS.
   (A)   Whenever a motor vehicle equipped with headlights is also equipped
with any auxiliary lights or spotlight or any other light on the front thereof
projecting a beam of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower, not more than a
total of five of any such lights on the front of a vehicle shall be lighted at
any one time when the vehicle is upon a highway.
   (B)   Any lighted light or illuminating device upon a motor vehicle, other
than headlights, spotlights, signal lights, or auxiliary driving lights, that
projects a beam of light of an intensity greater than 300 candlepower shall be
so directed that no part of the beam will strike the level of the roadway on
which the vehicle stands at a distance of more than 75 feet from the vehicle.
   (C)   (1)   Flashing lights are prohibited on motor vehicles, except as a
means for indicating a right or a left turn, or in the presence of a vehicular
traffic hazard requiring unusual care in approaching, or overtaking or passing.
      (2)   The prohibition in division (C)(1) of this section does not apply
to any of the following:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles, road service vehicles servicing or towing a
disabled vehicle, stationary waste collection vehicles actively collecting
garbage, refuse, trash, or recyclable materials on the roadside, rural mail
delivery vehicles, vehicles as provided in R.C. § 4513.182, highway maintenance
vehicles, and similar equipment operated by state or local authorities,
provided such vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a street or
highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing,
oscillating, or rotating amber light;
         (b)   Vehicles or machinery permitted by R.C. § 4513.111 to have a
flashing red light;
         (c)   Farm machinery and vehicles escorting farm machinery, provided
such machinery and vehicles are equipped with and display, when used on a
street or highway, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber light. Farm
machinery also may display the lights described in R.C. § 4513.111.
         (d)    A funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle, provided that the
funeral hearse or funeral escort vehicle is equipped with and displays, when
used on a street or highway for the special purpose necessitating such lights,
a flashing, oscillating, or rotating purple or amber light;
         (e)   A vehicle being used for emergency preparedness, response, and
recovery activities, as those terms are defined in R.C. § 5502.21, that is
equipped with and displays, when used on a street or highway for the special
purpose necessitating such lights, a flashing, oscillating, or rotating amber
or red and white light, provided that the vehicle is being operated by a person
from one of the following and the vehicle is clearly marked with the applicable
agency's or authority's insignia:
            1.   The Ohio Emergency Management Agency;
            2.   A countywide emergency management agency established under
R.C. § 5502.26;
            3.   A regional authority for emergency management established
under R.C. § 5502.27;
            4.   A program for emergency management established under R.C. §
5502.271.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to animal-drawn
vehicles subject to R.C. § 4513.114.
   (D)   (1)   Except a person operating a public safety vehicle, as defined in
R.C. § 4511.01(E), an emergency management agency vehicle, as described in
division (C)(2)(e) of this section, or a school bus, no person shall operate,
move, or park upon, or permit to stand within the right-of-way of any public
street or highway any vehicle or equipment that is equipped with and displaying
a flashing red or a flashing combination red and white light, or an oscillating
or rotating red light, or a combination red and white oscillating or rotating
light.
      (2)   Except a public law enforcement officer, or other person sworn to
enforce the criminal and traffic laws of the state, operating a public safety
vehicle when on duty, no person shall operate, move, or park upon, or permit to
stand within the right-of-way of any street or highway any vehicle or equipment
that is equipped with, or upon which is mounted, and displaying a flashing blue
or a flashing combination blue and white light, or an oscillating or rotating
blue light, or a combination blue and white oscillating or rotating light.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit the use of warning lights required by
law or the simultaneous flashing of turn signals on disabled vehicles or on
vehicles being operated in unfavorable atmospheric conditions in order to
enhance their visibility. This section also does not prohibit the simultaneous
flashing of turn signals or warning lights whether on farm machinery or
vehicles escorting farm machinery when used on a street or highway.
(R.C. § 4513.17)
   (F)   (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a motor vehicle
operated by a coroner, deputy coroner or coroner’s investigator may be equipped
with a flashing, oscillating or rotating red or blue light and siren, whistle
or bell capable of emitting sound audible under normal conditions from a
distance of not less than 500 feet. Such a vehicle may display the flashing,
oscillating or rotating red or blue light and may give the audible signal of
the siren, whistle or bell only when responding to a fatality or a fatal motor
vehicle accident on a street or highway and only at those locations where the
stoppage of traffic impedes the ability of the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator to arrive at the site of the fatality.
      (2)   This division (F) does not relieve the coroner, deputy coroner or
coroner’s investigator operating a motor vehicle from the duty to drive with
due regard for the safety of all persons and property upon the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.171)
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. §§ 4513.17(F), 4513.171(B))
§ 74.19 STANDARDS FOR LIGHTS ON SNOW REMOVAL EQUIPMENT AND OVERSIZE VEHICLES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to operate snow removal equipment on a highway unless
the lights thereon comply with and are lighted when and as required by the
standards and specifications adopted by the Director of Transportation pursuant
to R.C. § 4513.18.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.18)
§ 74.20 FLASHING LIGHTS PERMITTED FOR CERTAIN TYPES OF VEHICLES.
   Rural mail delivery vehicles, state highway survey vehicles, and funeral
escort vehicles are permitted to use flashing lights.
(R.C. § 4513.181)
§ 74.21 LIGHTS AND SIGN ON TRANSPORTATION FOR PRESCHOOL CHILDREN.
   (A)    No person shall operate any motor vehicle owned, leased, or hired by
a nursery school, kindergarten, or child care center, while transporting
preschool children to or from such an institution unless the motor vehicle is
equipped with and displaying two amber flashing lights mounted on a bar
attached to the top of the vehicle, and a sign bearing the designation "caution
– children", which shall be attached to the bar carrying the amber flashing
lights in such a manner as to be legible to persons both in front of and behind
the vehicle. The lights and sign shall meet standards and specifications
adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle displaying the lights and sign
required by this section for any purpose other than the transportation of
preschool children as provided in this section.
(R.C. § 4513.182)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.22 FOCUS AND AIM OF HEADLIGHTS.
   (A)   No person shall use any lights mentioned in R.C. §§ 4513.03 through
4513.18, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinances, upon any motor
vehicle, trailer or semitrailer unless these lights are equipped, mounted and
adjusted as to focus and aim in accordance with regulations which are
prescribed by the Director of Public Safety.
   (B)   The headlights on any motor vehicle shall comply with the headlamp
color requirements contained in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number
108, 49 C.F.R. § 571.108. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in violation
of this division.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.19)
§ 74.23 BRAKE EQUIPMENT; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The following requirements govern as to brake equipment on vehicles:
      (1)   Every motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, when operated upon a
highway shall be equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and
to stop and hold the motor vehicle, including two separate means of applying
the brakes, each of which means shall be effective to apply the brakes to at
least two wheels. If these two separate means of applying the brakes are
connected in any way, then on such motor vehicles, manufactured or assembled
after January 1, 1942, they shall be so constructed that failure of any one
part of the operating mechanism shall not leave the motor vehicle without
brakes on at least two wheels.
      (2)   Every motorcycle, when operated upon a highway shall be equipped
with at least one adequate brake, which may be operated by hand or by foot.
      (3)   Every motorized bicycle shall be equipped with brakes meeting the
rules adopted by the Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4511.521.
      (4)   When operated upon the highways, the following vehicles shall be
equipped with brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and to
hold the vehicle, designed to be applied by the driver of the towing motor
vehicle from its cab, and also designed and connected so that, in case of a
breakaway of the towed vehicle, the brakes shall be automatically applied:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, every trailer or
semitrailer, except a pole trailer, with an empty weight of 2,000 pounds or
more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1942;
         (b)   Every manufactured home or travel trailer with an empty weight
of 2,000 pounds or more, manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 2001.
      (5)   Every watercraft trailer with a gross weight or manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight rating of 3,000 pounds or more that is manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 2008, shall have separate brakes equipped with
hydraulic surge or electrically operated brakes on two wheels.
      (6)   In any combination of motor-drawn trailers or semitrailers equipped
with brakes, means shall be provided for applying the rearmost brakes in
approximate synchronism with the brakes on the towing vehicle, and developing
the required braking effort on the rearmost wheels at the fastest rate; or
means shall be provided for applying braking effort first on the rearmost
brakes; or both of the above means, capable of being used alternatively, may be
employed.
      (7)   Every vehicle and combination of vehicles, except motorcycles and
motorized bicycles, and except trailers and semitrailers of a gross weight of
less than 2,000 pounds, and pole trailers, shall be equipped with parking
brakes adequate to hold the vehicle on any grade on which it is operated, under
all conditions of loading, on a surface free from snow, ice, or loose material.
The parking brakes shall be capable of being applied in conformance with the
foregoing requirements by the driver’s muscular effort or by spring action or
by equivalent means. Their operation may be assisted by the service brakes or
other source of power provided that failure of the service brake actuation
system or other power assisting mechanism will not prevent the parking brakes
from being applied in conformance with the foregoing requirements. The parking
brakes shall be so designed that when once applied they shall remain applied
with the required effectiveness despite exhaustion of any source of energy or
leakage of any kind.
      (8)   The same brake drums, brake shoes and lining assemblies, brake shoe
anchors, and mechanical brake shoe actuation mechanism normally associated with
the wheel brake assemblies may be used for both the service brakes and the
parking brakes. If the means of applying the parking brakes and the service
brakes are connected in any way, they shall be so constructed that failure of
any one part shall not leave the vehicle without operative brakes.
      (9)   Every motor vehicle or combination of motor-drawn vehicles shall,
at all times and under all conditions of loading, be capable of being stopped
on a dry, smooth, level road free from loose material, upon application of the
service or foot brake, within the following specified distances, or shall be
capable of being decelerated at a sustained rate corresponding to these
distances:
         (a)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles having brakes on all wheels
shall come to a stop in 30 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per hour.
         (b)   Vehicles or combinations of vehicles not having brakes on all
wheels shall come to a stop in 40 feet or less from a speed of 20 miles per
hour.
      (10)   All brakes shall be maintained in good working order and shall be
so adjusted as to operate as equally as practicable with respect to the wheels
on opposite sides of the vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.20)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.24 BRAKE FLUID.
   (A)   No hydraulic brake fluid for use in motor vehicles shall be sold in
this municipality if the brake fluid is below the minimum standard of
specifications for heavy duty type brake fluid established by the society of
automotive engineers and the standard of specifications established by 49
C.F.R. § 571.116, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers, packers, or distributors of brake fluid selling
such fluid in this municipality shall state on the containers that the brake
fluid meets or exceeds the applicable minimum SAE standard of specifications,
and the standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.116, as
amended.
(R.C. § 4513.201)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BRAKES AND COMPONENTS.
   (A)   No brake lining, brake lining material, or brake lining assemblies for
use as repair and replacement parts in motor vehicles shall be sold in this
municipality if these items do not meet or exceed the minimum standard of
specifications established by the Society of Automotive Engineers and the
standard of specifications established in 49 C.F.R. § 571.105, as amended, and
49 C.F.R. § 571.135, as amended.
   (B)   All manufacturers or distributors of brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies selling these items for use as repair and
replacement parts in motor vehicles shall state that the items meet or exceed
the applicable minimum standard of specifications.
   (C)   As used in this section, MINIMUM STANDARD OF SPECIFICATIONS means a
minimum standard for brake system or brake component performance that meets the
need for motor vehicle safety and complies with the applicable SAE standards
and recommended practices, and the federal motor vehicle safety standards that
cover the same aspect of performance for any brake lining, brake lining
material, or brake lining assemblies.
(R.C. § 4513.202)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.26 HORNS, SIRENS, AND WARNING DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle when operated upon a highway shall be
equipped with a horn which is in good working order and capable of emitting
sound audible, under normal conditions, from a distance of not less than 200
feet.
      (2)   No motor vehicle shall be equipped with, nor shall any person use
upon a vehicle, any siren, whistle, or bell. Any vehicle may be equipped with a
theft alarm signal device which shall be so arranged that it cannot be used as
an ordinary warning signal. Every emergency vehicle shall be equipped with a
siren, whistle or bell, capable of emitting sound audible under normal
conditions from a distance of not less than 500 feet and of a type approved by
the Director of Public Safety. Such equipment shall not be used except when
such vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or is in the
immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law, in which case
the driver of the emergency vehicle shall sound such equipment when it is
necessary to warn pedestrians and other drivers of the approach thereof.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.21)
§ 74.27 MUFFLERS; EXCESSIVE SMOKE OR GAS.
   (A)   (1)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle with an internal combustion
engine shall at all times be equipped with a muffler which is in good working
order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise, and no
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass or similar device upon a motor
vehicle on a highway. Every motorcycle muffler shall be equipped with baffle
plates.
      (2)   No person shall own, operate or have in the person’s possession any
motor vehicle or motorcycle equipped with a device for producing excessive
smoke or gas, or so equipped as to permit oil or any other chemical to flow
into or upon the exhaust pipe or muffler of such vehicle, or equipped in any
way to produce or emit smoke or dangerous or annoying gases from any portion of
such vehicle, other than the ordinary gases emitted by the exhaust of an
internal combustion engine under normal operation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.22)
§ 74.28 REARVIEW MIRRORS.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle and motorcycle shall be equipped with a mirror so
located as to reflect to the operator a view of the highway to the rear of such
vehicle or motorcycle. Operators of vehicles and motorcycles shall have a clear
and unobstructed view to the front and to both sides of their vehicles and
motorcycles and shall have a clear view to the rear of their vehicles and
motorcycles by mirror.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.23)
§ 74.29 WINDSHIELDS AND WIPERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle on a street or highway in this
municipality, other than a motorcycle or motorized bicycle, that is not
equipped with a windshield.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, other than a bus, with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
sidewings, side, or rear windows of such vehicle other than a certificate or
other paper required to be displayed by law, except that there may be in the
lower left-hand or right-hand corner of the windshield a sign, poster, or decal
not to exceed four inches in height by six inches in width. No sign, poster, or
decal shall be displayed in the front windshield in such a manner as to conceal
the vehicle identification number for the motor vehicle when, in accordance
with federal law, that number is located inside the vehicle passenger
compartment and so placed as to be readable through the vehicle glazing without
moving any part of the vehicle.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a passenger car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it does not conceal the vehicle
identification number.
      (3)   Division (B)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who is
driving a commercial car with an electronic device, including an antenna,
electronic tolling or other transponder, camera, directional navigation device
or other similar electronic device located in the front windshield if either of
the following apply to the device:
         (a)   It is a “vehicle safety technology” as defined in 49 C.F.R. §
393.5 and complies with 49 C.F.R. § 393.60(e)(1)(ii).
         (b)   It does not restrict the vehicle operator’s sight lines to the
road and highway signs and signals, and it is mounted not more than 8.5 inches
below the upper edge of the windshield.
   (C)   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a device
for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield. The device
shall be maintained in good working order and so constructed as to be
controlled or operated by the operator of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.24)
§ 74.30 SOLID TIRE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every solid tire, as defined in R.C. § 4501.01, on a vehicle shall
have rubber or other resilient material on its entire traction surface at least
one inch thick above the edge of the flange of the entire periphery.
(R.C. § 4513.25)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.31 REQUIREMENTS FOR SAFETY GLASS IN MOTOR VEHICLES; USE OF TINTED GLASS OR
REFLECTORIZED MATERIAL.
   (A)   Safety glass.
      (1)   No person shall sell any new motor vehicle nor shall any new motor
vehicle be registered, and no person shall operate any motor vehicle, which is
registered in this state and which has been manufactured or assembled on or
after January 1, 1936, unless the motor vehicle is equipped with safety glass,
wherever glass is used in the windshields, doors, partitions, rear windows, and
windows on each side immediately adjacent to the rear window.
      (2)   As used in this section, SAFETY GLASS means any product composed of
glass so manufactured, fabricated, or treated as substantially to prevent
shattering and flying of the glass when it is struck or broken, or such other
or similar product as may be approved by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles.
      (3)   Glass other than safety glass shall not be offered for sale, or
sold for use in, or installed in any door, window, partition, or windshield
that is required by this section to be equipped with safety glass.
(R.C. § 4513.26)
   (B)   Tinted or reflectorized material.
      (1)   No person shall operate, on any highway or other public or private
property open to the public for vehicular travel or parking, lease, or rent any
motor vehicle that is registered in this state unless the motor vehicle
conforms to the requirements concerning tinted glass and reflectorized material
of R.C. § 4513.241 and of any applicable rule adopted under that section.
      (2)   No person shall install in or on any motor vehicle, any glass or
other material that fails to conform to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or
of any rule adopted under that section.
      (3)   (a)   No used motor vehicle dealer or new motor vehicle dealer, as
defined in R.C. § 4517.01, shall sell any motor vehicle that fails to conform
to the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that
section.
         (b)   No manufacturer, remanufacturer, or distributor, as defined in
R.C. § 4517.01, shall provide to a motor vehicle dealer licensed under R.C.
Chapter 4517 or to any other person, a motor vehicle that fails to conform to
the requirements of R.C. § 4513.241 or of any rule adopted under that section.
      (4)   No reflectorized materials shall be permitted upon or in any front
windshield, side windows, sidewings, or rear window.
      (5)   This division (B) does not apply to the manufacturer’s tinting or
glazing of motor vehicle windows or windshields that is otherwise in compliance
with or permitted by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard #205.
      (6)   With regard to any side window behind a driver’s seat or any rear
window other than any window on an emergency door, this division (B) does not
apply to any school bus used to transport a child with disabilities pursuant to
R.C. Chapter 3323, whom it is impossible or impractical to transport by regular
school bus in the course of regular route transportation provided by a school
district. As used in this division, CHILD WITH DISABILITIES has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 3323.01.
      (7)   This division (B) does not apply to any school bus that is to be
sold and operated outside the municipality.
      (8)   (a)   This division (B) does not apply to a motor vehicle used by a
law enforcement agency under either of the following circumstances:
            1.   The vehicle does not have distinctive markings of a law
enforcement vehicle but is operated by or on behalf of the law enforcement
agency in an authorized investigation or other activity requiring that the
presence and identity of the vehicle occupants be undisclosed.
            2.   The vehicle primarily is used by the law enforcement canine
unit for transporting a police dog.
         (b)   As used in this division, LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY means a police
department, the office of a sheriff, the State Highway Patrol, a county
prosecuting attorney, or a federal, state, or local governmental body that
enforces criminal laws and that has employees who have a statutory power of
arrest.
(R.C. § 4513.241(C) - (J))
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1),(B)(3)(b) or (B)(4) of this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (B)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor if the dealer or the dealer’s agent knew of the nonconformity
at the time of sale.
      (4)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, except that an organization may not be
convicted unless the act of installation was authorized by the board of
directors, trustees, partners, or by a high managerial officer acting on behalf
of the organization, and installation was performed by an employee of the
organization acting within the scope of the person’s employment.
         (b)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section,
whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is liable in a civil action to
the owner of a motor vehicle on which was installed the nonconforming glass or
material for any damages incurred by that person as a result of the
installation of the nonconforming glass or material, costs of maintaining the
civil action, and attorney fees.
         (c)   In addition to any other penalty imposed under this section, if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of division (B)(2) of this section and the offender is a motor vehicle repair
operator registered under R.C. Chapter 4775 or a motor vehicle dealer licensed
under R.C. Chapter 4517, whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is
subject to a registration or license suspension, as applicable, for a period of
not more than 180 days.
(R.C. § 4513.241(K))
Statutory reference:
   Recording and reporting violations, certain court requirements, see R.C. §
4513.241(L)
   Regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-41
§ 74.32 DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate any motor vehicle manufactured or
assembled on or after January 1, 1954, unless the vehicle is equipped with
electrical or mechanical directional signals.
      (2)   No person shall operate any motorcycle or motor-driven cycle
manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1968, unless the vehicle is
equipped with electrical or mechanical directional signals.
   (B)   As used in this section, DIRECTIONAL SIGNALS means an electrical or
mechanical signal device capable of clearly indicating an intention to turn
either to the right or to the left and which shall be visible from both the
front and rear.
   (C)   All mechanical signal devices shall be self-illuminating devices when
in use at the times mentioned in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.261)
§ 74.33 INSTALLATION AND SALE OF SEAT SAFETY BELTS REQUIRED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   As used in this section and in R.C. § 4513.263 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the component parts of a seat safety belt
include a belt, anchor attachment assembly, and a buckle or closing device.
   (B)   No person shall sell, lease, rent, or operate any passenger car, as
defined in R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this
state and that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1962, unless
the passenger car is equipped with sufficient anchorage units at the attachment
points for attaching at least two sets of seat safety belts to its front seat.
Such anchorage units at the attachment points shall be of such construction,
design, and strength to support a loop load pull of not less than 4,000 pounds
for each belt.
   (C)   No person shall sell, lease, or rent any passenger car, as defined in
R.C. § 4501.01(E), that is registered or to be registered in this state and
that is manufactured or assembled on or after January 1, 1966, unless the
passenger car has installed in its front seat at least two seat safety belt
assemblies.
   (D)   After January 1, 1966, neither any seat safety belt for use in a motor
vehicle nor any component part of any such seat safety belt shall be sold in
this municipality unless the seat safety belt or the component part satisfies
the minimum standard of specifications established by the society of automotive
engineers for automotive seat belts and unless the seat safety belt or
component part is labeled so as to indicate that it meets those minimum
standard specifications.
   (E)   Each sale, lease, or rental in violation of this section constitutes a
separate offense.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.262)
Statutory reference:
   Child restraint systems, regulations, see O.A.C. Chapter 4501-37
§ 74.34 REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTRA SIGNAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall operate any motor truck, bus, or commercial tractor
upon any highway at any time from sunset to sunrise unless there is carried in
such vehicle, except as provided in division (B) of this section, the following
equipment which shall be of the types approved by the Director of
Transportation.
      (1)   At least three flares or three red reflectors or three red electric
lanterns, each of which is capable of being seen and distinguished at a
distance of 500 feet under normal atmospheric conditions at nighttime;
      (2)   At least three red-burning fusees, unless red reflectors or red
electric lanterns are carried;
      (3)   At least two red cloth flags, not less than two inches square, with
standards to support them;
      (4)   The type of red reflectors shall comply with such standards and
specifications in effect on September 16, 1963, or later established by the
Interstate Commerce Commission and must be certified as meeting such standards
by Underwriters Laboratories.
   (B)   No person shall operate at the time and under the conditions stated in
this section any motor vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, unless there is carried in such
vehicle three red electric lanterns or three red reflectors meeting the
requirements stated in division (A) of this section. There shall not be carried
in any such vehicle any flare, fusee, or signal produced by a flame.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any person who operates any motor
vehicle in a work area designated by protection equipment devices that are
displayed and used in accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of
Transportation under R.C. § 4511.09.
(R.C. § 4513.27)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.35 DISPLAY OF WARNING DEVICES ON DISABLED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever any motor truck, bus, commercial tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, or pole trailer is disabled upon any freeway, expressway, thruway
and connecting, entering, or exiting ramps within the municipality, at any time
when lighted lamps are required on vehicles, the operator of such vehicle shall
display the following warning devices upon the highway during the time the
vehicle is so disabled on the highway except as provided in division (B) of
this section:
      (1)   A lighted fusee shall be immediately placed on the roadway at the
traffic side of such vehicle, unless red electric lanterns or red reflectors
are displayed.
      (2)   Within the burning period of the fusee and as promptly as possible,
three lighted flares or pot torches, or three red reflectors or three red
electric lanterns shall be placed on the roadway as follows:
         (a)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet in
advance of the vehicle;
         (b)   One at a distance of 40 paces or approximately 100 feet to the
rear of the vehicle, except as provided in this section, each in the center of
the lane of traffic occupied by the disabled vehicle;
         (c)   One at the traffic side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle used in transporting flammable liquids in bulk,
or in transporting compressed flammable gases, is disabled upon a highway at
any time or place mentioned in division (A) of this section, the driver of such
vehicle shall display upon the roadway the following warning devices:
      (1)   One red electric lantern or one red reflector shall be immediately
placed on the roadway at the traffic side of the vehicle;
      (2)   Two other red electric lanterns or two other red reflectors shall
be placed to the front and rear of the vehicle in the same manner prescribed
for flares in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   When a vehicle of a type specified in division (B) of this section is
disabled, the use of flares, fusees, or any signal produced by flame as warning
signals is prohibited.
   (D)   Whenever any vehicle of a type referred to in this section is disabled
upon any freeway, expressway, thruway, and connecting, entering, or exiting
ramps within the municipality, at any time when the display of fusees, flares,
red reflectors, or electric lanterns is not required, the operator of such
vehicle shall display two red flags upon the roadway in the lane of traffic
occupied by the disabled vehicle, one at a distance of 40 paces or
approximately 100 feet in advance of the vehicle, and one at a distance of 40
paces or approximately 100 feet to the rear of the vehicle, except as provided
in this section.
   (E)   The flares, fusees, lanterns, red reflectors, and flags to be
displayed as required in this section shall conform with the applicable
requirements of R.C. § 4513.27 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (F)   In the event the vehicle is disabled near a curve, crest of a hill, or
other obstruction of view, the flare, flag, reflector, or lantern in that
direction shall be placed as to afford ample warning to other users of the
highway, but in no case shall it be placed less than 40 paces or approximately
100 feet nor more than 120 paces or approximately 300 feet from the disabled
vehicle.
   (G)   This section does not apply to the operator of any vehicle in a work
area designated by protection equipment devices that are displayed and used in
accordance with the manual adopted by the Department of Transportation under
R.C. § 4511.09.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.28)
§ 74.36 REQUIREMENTS FOR VEHICLES TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any person operating any vehicle transporting explosives upon a
highway shall at all times comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The vehicle shall be marked or placarded on each side and on the
rear with the word “EXPLOSIVES” in letters not less than eight inches high, or
there shall be displayed on the rear of such vehicle a red flag not less than
24 inches square marked with the word “DANGER” in white letters six inches
high, or shall be marked or placarded in accordance with Section 177.823 of the
United States Department of Transportation regulations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall be equipped with not less than two fire
extinguishers, filled and ready for immediate use, and placed at convenient
points on such vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.29)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.37 STUDDED TIRES; SEASONAL USE PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, STUDDED TIRE means any tire designed
for use on a vehicle and equipped with metal studs or studs of wear-resisting
material that project beyond the tread of the traction surface of the tire.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, no person
shall operate any motor vehicle other than a public safety vehicle or school
bus that is equipped with studded tires on any street or highway in this
municipality, except during the period extending from the first day of November
of each year through the fifteenth day of April of the succeeding year.
      (2)   A person may operate a motor vehicle that is equipped with
retractable studded tires with the studs retracted at any time of the year, but
shall operate the motor vehicle with the studs extended only as provided in
division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the use of tire chains when there is
snow or ice on the streets or highways where such chains are being used, or the
immediate vicinity thereof.
(R.C. § 5589.081)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
§ 74.38 SAFETY INSPECTION DECALS FOR BUSES.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      BUS.
         (a)   Means any vehicle used for the transportation of passengers that
meets at least one of the following:
            1.   Was originally designed by the manufacturer to transport more
than 15 passengers, including the driver;
            2.   Either the gross vehicle weight rating or the gross vehicle
weight exceeds 10,000 pounds.
         (b)   The term does not include a church bus as defined in R.C. §
4503.07 or a school bus unless the church bus or school bus is used in the
transportation of passengers by a motor carrier.
         (c)   The term also does not include any of the following:
            1.   Any vehicle operated exclusively on a rail or rails;
            2.   A trolley bus operated by electric power derived from a fixed
overhead wire furnishing local passenger transportation similar to street-
railway service;
            3.   Vehicles owned or leased by government agencies or political
subdivisions.
      MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01
(R.C. § 4513.50)
   (B)   Safety inspection decals.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(2) of this section, on and after
July 1, 2001, no person shall operate a bus, nor shall any person being the
owner of a bus or having supervisory responsibility for a bus, permit the
operation of any bus unless the bus displays a valid, current safety inspection
decal issued by the State Highway Patrol under R.C. § 4513.52.
      (2)   For the purpose of complying with the requirements of this section
and R.C. § 4513.52, the owner or other operator of a bus may drive the bus
directly to an inspection site conducted by the State Highway Patrol and
directly back to the person’s place of business without a valid registration
and without displaying a safety inspection decal, provided that no passengers
may occupy the bus during such operation.
(R.C. § 4513.51(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4513.51(D))
§ 74.39 AIR BAGS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR BAG. Has the same meaning as in 49 C.F.R. § 579.4, as amended.
      COUNTERFEIT AIR BAG. An air bag displaying a mark identical or similar to
the genuine mark of a motor vehicle manufacturer, without the authorization of
the motor vehicle manufacturer.
      NONFUNCTIONAL AIR BAG. Any of the following:
         (a)   A replacement air bag that has been previously deployed or
damaged;
         (b)   A replacement air bag that has an electrical fault that is
detected by the air bag diagnostic system of a vehicle after the air bag is
installed;
         (c)   A counterfeit air bag, air bag cover, or some other object that
is installed in a vehicle to deceive an owner or operator of the vehicle into
believing that a functional air bag has been installed.
   (B)   No person shall install or reinstall in any motor vehicle a
counterfeit or nonfunctional air bag or any object intended to fulfill the
function of an air bag other than an air bag that was designed in conformance
with or that is regulated by Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208
for the make, model, and model year of the vehicle, knowing that the object is
not in accordance with that standard.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly manufacture, import, sell, or offer for sale
any of the following:
      (1)   A counterfeit air bag;
      (2)   A nonfunctional air bag;
      (3)   Any other object that is intended to be installed in a motor
vehicle to fulfill the function of an air bag and that is not in conformance
with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 208 for the make, model, and
model year of the vehicle in which the object is intended to be installed.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly sell, install, or reinstall a device in a
motor vehicle that causes the diagnostic system of a vehicle to inaccurately
indicate that the vehicle is equipped with a functional air bag.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) or (D) of this section is guilty
of improper replacement of a motor vehicle air bag, a misdemeanor of the first
degree on a first offense. On each subsequent offense, or if the violation
results in serious physical harm to an individual, the person is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Each manufacture, importation, installation, reinstallation, sale,
or offer for sale in violation of this section shall constitute a separate and
distinct violation.
(R.C. § 4549.20)
LOADS
§ 74.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO EXCEED LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The municipality, with respect to highways under their
jurisdiction, upon application in writing, shall issue a special regional heavy
hauling permit authorizing the applicant to operate or move a vehicle or
combination of vehicles as follows:
         (a)   At a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum
specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with
R.C. §§ 4513.01 to 4513.37.
         (b)   Upon any highway under the jurisdiction of municipality except
those highways with a condition insufficient to bear the weight of the vehicle
or combination of vehicles as stated in the application.
         (c)   Issuance of a special regional heavy hauling permit is subject
to the payment of a fee established by the municipality in accordance with this
section.
      (2)   In circumstances where a person is not eligible to receive a permit
under division (A)(1) of this section, the municipality, with respect to
highways under its jurisdiction, upon application in writing and for good cause
shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the applicant to
operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of
vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in R.C. §§ 5577.01 through
5577.09, or otherwise not in conformity with R.C. §§ 4513.01 through 4513.37,
upon any highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 715.22 and 723.01, the holder of a
permit issued by the Ohio Director of Transportation under R.C. § 4513.34 may
move the vehicle or combination of vehicles described in the permit on any
highway that is a part of the state highway system when the movement is partly
within and partly without the corporate limits of the municipality. No local
authority shall require any other permit or license or charge any license fee
or other charge against the holder of a permit for the movement of a vehicle or
combination of vehicles on any highway which is a part of the state highway
system. The Ohio Director of Transportation shall not require the holder of a
permit issued by the municipality to obtain a special permit for the movement
of vehicles or combination of vehicles on highways within the jurisdiction of
the municipality.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4513.34(B)(3), permits may be issued
for any period of time not to exceed one year, as the local authority in its
discretion determines advisable or for the duration of any public construction
project.
   (C)   (1)   The application for a permit issued under this section shall be
in the form that the municipality prescribes. The municipality may prescribe a
permit fee to be imposed and collected when any permit described in this
section is issued. The permit fee may be in an amount sufficient to reimburse
the municipality for the administrative costs incurred in issuing the permit,
and also to cover the cost of normal and expected damage caused to the roadway
or a street or highway structure as the result of the operation of the
nonconforming vehicle or combination of vehicles.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the
Director under R.C. § 4513.34, milk transported in bulk by vehicle is deemed a
nondivisible load.
      (3)   For purposes of this section and of rules adopted by the Director
under R.C. § 4513.34, three or fewer aluminum coils, transported by a vehicle,
are deemed a nondivisible load. The Director shall adopt rules establishing
requirements for an aluminum coil permit that are substantially similar to the
requirements for a steel coil permit under O.A.C. Chapter 5501:2-1.
   (D)   The municipality shall issue a special regional heavy hauling permit
under division (A)(1) of this section upon application and payment of the
applicable fee. However, the municipality may issue or withhold a special
permit specified in division (A)(2) of this section. If a permit is to be
issued, the municipality may limit or prescribe conditions of operation for the
vehicle and may require the posting of a bond or other security conditioned
upon the sufficiency of the permit fee to compensate for damage caused to the
roadway or a street or highway structure. In addition, the municipality, as a
condition of issuance of an overweight permit, may require the applicant to
develop and enter into a mutual agreement with the municipality to compensate
for or to repair excess damage caused to the roadway by travel under the
permit.
   (E)   Every permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle
or combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection
by any police officer or authorized agent of any authority granting the permit.
No person shall violate any of the terms of a permit.
   (F)   The Director of Transportation may debar an applicant from applying
for a special permit under this section upon a finding based on a reasonable
belief that the applicant has done any of the actions specified in R.C. §
4513.34(F).
   (G)   Notice and procedures for debarment shall be as provided in R.C. §
4513.34(G).
   (H)   (1)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to gross load limits.
      (2)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to axle load by more than 2,000 pounds per axle or group of
axles.
      (3)   No person shall violate the terms of a permit issued under this
section that relate to an approved route except upon order of a law enforcement
officer or authorized agent of the issuing authority.
   (I)   A permit issued by the municipality under this section for the
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles is valid for the purposes of
the vehicle operation in accordance with the conditions and limitations
specified on the permit. Such a permit is voidable by law enforcement only for
operation of a vehicle or combination of vehicles in violation of the weight,
dimension, or route provisions of the permit. However, a permit is not voidable
for operation in violation of a route provision of a permit if the operation is
upon the order of a law enforcement officer.
(R.C. § 4513.34)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
Statutory reference:
   Overweight or oversized vehicles, state permit regulations, see O.A.C.
Chapter 5501:2-1
§ 74.51 LIMITATION OF LOAD EXTENSION ON LEFT SIDE OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on a highway with any load
carried on the vehicle which extends more than six inches beyond the line of
the fenders on the vehicle’s left side.
(R.C. § 4513.30)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)    
§ 74.52 ALL LOADS SHALL BE PROPERLY SECURED.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the vehicle
is so constructed, loaded, or covered as to prevent any of its load from
dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, except that sand
or other substances may be dropped for the purpose of securing traction, or
water or other substances may be sprinkled on a roadway in cleaning or
maintaining the roadway.
   (B)   Except for a farm vehicle used to transport agricultural produce or
agricultural production materials or a rubbish vehicle in the process of
acquiring its load, no vehicle loaded with garbage, swill, cans, bottles, waste
paper, ashes, refuse, trash, rubbish, waste, wire, paper, cartons, boxes,
glass, solid waste, or any other material of an unsanitary nature that is
susceptible to blowing or bouncing from a moving vehicle shall be driven or
moved on any highway unless the load is covered with a sufficient cover to
prevent the load or any part of the load from spilling onto the highway.
(R.C. § 4513.31)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
§ 74.53 TOWING REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTION TO SIZE AND WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   When one vehicle is towing another vehicle, the drawbar or other
connection shall be of sufficient strength to pull all the weight towed
thereby, and the drawbar or other connection shall not exceed 15 feet from one
vehicle to the other, except the connection between any two vehicles
transporting poles, pipe, machinery, or other objects of structural nature
which cannot readily be dismembered.
      (2)   When one vehicle is towing another and the connection consists only
of a chain, rope, or cable, there shall be displayed upon such connection a
white flag or cloth not less than 12 inches square.   
      (3)   In addition to such drawbar or other connection, each trailer and
each semitrailer which is not connected to a commercial tractor by means of a
fifth wheel shall be coupled with stay chains or cables to the vehicle by which
it is being drawn. These chains or cables shall be of sufficient size and
strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle in
case the drawbar or other connection should break or become disengaged. In case
of a loaded pole trailer, the connecting pole to the drawing vehicle shall be
coupled to the drawing vehicle with stay chains or cables of sufficient size
and strength to prevent the towed vehicle’s parting from the drawing vehicle.
      (4)   Every trailer or semitrailer, except pole and cable trailers and
pole and cable dollies operated by a public utility as defined in R.C. §
5727.01, shall be equipped with a coupling device which shall be so designed
and constructed that the trailer will follow substantially in the path of the
vehicle drawing it, without whipping or swerving from side to side. Vehicles
used to transport agricultural produce or agricultural production materials
between a local place of storage and supply and the farm, when drawn or towed
on a street or highway at a speed of 25 miles per hour or less, and vehicles
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a street or
highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 miles per
hour or less, shall have a drawbar or other connection, including the hitch
mounted on the towing vehicle, which shall be of sufficient strength to pull
all the weight towed thereby. Only one such vehicle used to transport
agricultural produce or agricultural production materials as provided in this
section may be towed or drawn at one time except as follows:
         (a)   An agricultural tractor may tow or draw more than one such
vehicle;
         (b)   A pickup truck or straight truck designed by the manufacturer to
carry a load of not less than one-half ton and not more than two tons may tow
or draw not more than two such vehicles that are being used to transport
agricultural produce from the farm to a local place of storage. No vehicle
being so towed by such a pickup truck or straight truck shall be considered to
be a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 4513.32)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4513.99)
   (C)   Exception to size and weight restrictions.
      (1)   The size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter
5577 do not apply to a any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is engaged in the initial towing or removal of a
wrecked or disabled motor vehicle from the site of an emergency on a public
highway where the vehicle became wrecked or disabled to the nearest site where
the vehicle can be brought into conformance with the requirements of this
chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577, to the nearest storage facility, or to the
nearest qualified repair facility;
         (b)   A person who is en route to the site of an emergency on a public
highway to remove a wrecked or disabled motor vehicle;
         (c)   A person who is returning from delivering a wrecked or disabled
motor vehicle to a site, storage facility, or repair facility as specified in
division (C)(1)(a) of this section.
      (2)   Any subsequent towing of a wrecked or disabled vehicle shall comply
with the size and weight provisions of this chapter and R.C. Chapter 5577.
      (3)   No court shall impose any penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99 or
the civil liability established in R.C. § 5577.12 upon a person who is
operating a vehicle in the manner described in division (C)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 5577.15)
§ 74.54 WEIGHING OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF EXCESS LOAD.
   (A)   Any police officer having reason to believe that the weight of a
vehicle and its load is unlawful may require the driver of the vehicle to stop
and submit to a weighing of it by means of a compact, self-contained, portable,
sealed scale specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways; a sealed scale permanently installed in a fixed location, having a
load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of
highway vehicles; a sealed scale, permanently installed in a fixed location,
having a load-receiving element specially adapted to determining the combined
load of all wheels on a single axle or on successive axles of a highway
vehicle; or a sealed scale adapted to weighing highway vehicles, loaded or
unloaded.
   (B)   The driver of the vehicle shall, if necessary, be directed to proceed
to the nearest available sealed scales to accomplish the weighing, provided the
scales are within three miles of the point where the vehicle is stopped.
   (C)   Any vehicle stopped in accordance with this section may be held by the
police officer for a reasonable time only to accomplish the weighing as
prescribed by this section.
   (D)   All scales used in determining the lawful weight of a vehicle and its
load shall be annually compared by a municipal, county or state sealer with the
state standards or standards approved by the state, and the scales shall not be
sealed if they do not conform to the state standards or standards approved by
the state.
   (E)   At each end of a permanently installed scale, there shall be a
straight approach in the same plane as the platform, of sufficient length and
width to insure the level positioning of vehicles during weight determinations.
During determination of weight by compact, self-contained, portable, sealed
scales, specially adapted to determining the wheel loads of vehicles on
highways, they shall always be used on a level terrain of sufficient length and
width to accommodate the entire vehicle being weighed. Such terrain shall be
level, or if not level, it shall be of such elevation that the difference in
elevation between the wheels on any one axle does not exceed two inches and the
difference in elevation between axles being weighed does not exceed one-quarter
inch per foot of the distance between such axles.
   (F)   In all determinations of all weights, except gross weight, by compact,
self-contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to determining the
wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all successive axles, 12 feet or less
apart, shall be weighed simultaneously by placing one such scale under the
outside wheel of each such axle. In determinations of gross weight by the use
of compact, self- contained, portable, sealed scales, specially adapted to
determining the wheel loads of vehicles on highways, all axles shall be weighed
simultaneously by placing one such scale under the outside wheel of each axle.
   (G)   Whenever an officer, upon weighing a vehicle and load, determines that
the weight is unlawful, he or she may require the driver to stop the vehicle in
a suitable place and remain standing until such portion of the load is removed
as is necessary to reduce the weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted
under R.C. §§ 5577.01 through 5577.14 and this chapter.
(R.C. § 4513.33)
Statutory reference:
   Alteration of weight limits, approval of Director required, see R.C. §
4513.33
§ 74.55 OPERATION OF VEHICLE EXCEEDING WEIGHT LIMITS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate or move a traction engine, steam roller, or
other vehicle, load, object or structure, whether propelled by muscular or
motor power, over or upon the improved public streets, highways, bridges, or
culverts in this municipality, that weighs in excess of the weights prescribed
in this subchapter or R.C. §§ 5577.01 et seq., unless the person has been
issued a permit under R.C. § 4513.34, or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance. The prohibition in this section applies regardless of whether the
weight is moved upon wheels, rollers, or otherwise. Any weight determination
shall include the weight of the vehicle, object, structure, contrivance, and
load.
(R.C. § 5577.02)
   (B)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be fined
$80 for the first 2,000 pounds, or fraction thereof, of overload; for overloads
in excess of 2,000 pounds, but not in excess of 5,000 pounds, such person shall
be fined $100, and in addition thereto $1 per 100 pounds of overload; for
overloads in excess of 5,000 pounds but not in excess of 10,000 pounds, such
person shall be fined $130, and in addition thereto $2 per 100 pounds of
overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or both. For all overloads in
excess of 10,000 pounds, such person shall be fined $160, and in addition
thereto $3 per 100 pounds of overload, or imprisoned not more than 30 days, or
both. Whoever violates the weight provisions of vehicle and load relating to
gross load limits shall be fined not less than $100. No penalty prescribed in
this division (B)(2) shall be imposed on any vehicle combination if the
overload on any one axle does not exceed 1,000 pounds, and if the immediately
preceding or following axle, excepting the front axle of the vehicle
combination, is underloaded by the same or greater amount. For purposes of this
division (B)(2), two axles on one vehicle less than eight feet apart shall be
considered as one axle.
(R.C. § 5577.99(A))
§ 74.56 LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Weight of load; width of tire. No person, firm or corporation shall
transport over the improved public streets, alleys, intercounty highways, state
highways, bridges or culverts in this municipality, in any vehicle propelled by
muscular, motor or other power, any burden, including weight of vehicle and
load, greater than the following:
      (1)   (a)   In vehicles having metal tires three inches or less in width,
a load of 500 pounds for each inch of the total width of the tire on all
wheels;
         (b)   When the tires on such vehicles exceed three inches in width, an
additional load of 800 pounds shall be permitted for each inch by which the
total width of the tires on all wheels exceeds 12 inches.
      (2)   In vehicles having tires of rubber or other similar substance, for
each inch of the total width of tires on all wheels, as follows:
 
Tire Width (in inches) Load Limit (in pounds)
3.5                    450
6 and over             650
 
      (3)   The total width of tires on all wheels shall be, in the case of
solid tires of rubber or other similar substance, the actual width in inches of
all such tires between the flanges at the base of the tires, but in no event
shall that portion of tire coming in contact with the road surface be less than
two-thirds the width so measured between the flanges.
      (4)   In the case of pneumatic tires, of rubber or other similar
substance, the total width of tires on all wheels shall be the actual width of
all such tires, measured at the widest portion thereof when inflated and not
bearing a load.
      (5)   In no event shall the load, including the proportionate weight of
vehicle that can be concentrated on any wheel, exceed 650 pounds to each inch
in width of the tread as defined in this division (A) for solid tires, or each
inch in the actual diameter of pneumatic tires measured when inflated and not
bearing a load.
(R.C. § 5577.03)
   (B)   Vehicles with pneumatic tires, load limits.
      (1)   The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of any vehicle, load,
object or structure operated or moved upon improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of pneumatic
tire, measured as prescribed by division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The weight of the vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that
is part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not
exceed any of the following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds;
         (b)   On any tandem axle, 34,000 pounds;
         (c)   On any two or more consecutive axles, the maximum weight as
determined by application of the formula provided in division (B)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   (a)   For purposes of division (B)(2)(c) of this section, the
maximum gross weight on any two or more consecutive axles shall be determined
by application of the following formula: W = 500[(LN/–1) + 12N + 36]
         (b)   In this formula, W equals the overall gross weight on any group
of two or more consecutive axles to the nearest 500 pounds, L equals the
distance in rounded whole feet between the extreme of any group of two or more
consecutive axles, and N equals the number of axles in the group under
consideration. However, two consecutive sets of tandem axles may carry a gross
load of 34,000 pounds each, provided the overall distance between the first and
last axles of such consecutive sets of tandem axles is 36 feet or more.
      (4)   Except as provided in division (B)(9) of this section, the weight
of vehicle and load imposed upon a road surface that is not part of the
interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires shall not exceed any of the
following weight limitations:
         (a)   On any one axle, 20,000 pounds.
         (b)   On any two successive axles:
            1.   Spaced four feet or less apart, and weighed simultaneously,
24,000 pounds;
            2.   Spaced more than four feet apart, and weighed simultaneously,
34,000 pounds, plus 1,000 pounds per foot or fraction thereof, over four feet,
not to exceed 40,000 pounds.
         (c)   On any three successive load-bearing axles designed to equalize
the load between such axles and spaced so that each such axle of the three-axle
group is more than four feet from the next axle in the three-axle group and so
that the spacing between the first axle and the third axle in the three-axle
group is no more than nine feet, and with such load-bearing three-axle group
weighed simultaneously as a unit:
            1.   A weight of 48,000 pounds, with the total weight of the
vehicle and load not exceeding 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900 pounds for
each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle;
            2.   As an alternative to division (B)(4)(c)1. of this section,
42,500 pounds, if part of a six-axle vehicle combination with at least 20 feet
of spacing between the front axle and rearmost axle, with the total weight of
the vehicle and load not exceeding 54,000 pounds plus an additional 600 pounds
per each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of the
vehicle.
         (d)   The total weight of the vehicle and load utilizing any
combination of axles, other than as provided for three-axle groups in division
(B)(4) of this section, shall not exceed 38,000 pounds plus an additional 900
pounds for each foot of spacing between the front axle and the rearmost axle of
the vehicle.
      (5)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, the
maximum overall gross weight of a vehicle and load imposed upon the road
surface shall not exceed 80,000 pounds.
      (6)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between nearest axles of the respective vehicles
to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet.
      (7)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section, TANDEM AXLE means two
or more consecutive axles whose centers may be included between parallel
transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches but not more than 96
inches apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
      (8)   This division (B) does not apply to passenger bus type vehicles
operated by a regional transit authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.54.
      (9)   Either division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section applies to the
weight of a vehicle and its load imposed upon any road surface that is not a
part of the interstate system by vehicles with pneumatic tires. As between
divisions (B)(2) and (B)(4) of this section, only the division that yields the
highest total gross vehicle weight limit shall be applied to any such vehicle.
Once that division has been determined, only the limits contained in the
subdivisions of that division shall apply to that vehicle.
(R.C. § 5577.04)
   (C)   Axle and wheel load, gross weights and towing connection length for
solid rubber tires.
      (1)   No vehicle, load, object or structure having a maximum axle load
greater than 16,000 pounds when such vehicle is equipped with solid rubber
tires shall be operated or moved upon the improved public highways, streets,
bridges or culverts. The maximum wheel load of any one wheel of such vehicle
shall not exceed 650 pounds per inch width of tire, measured as prescribed by
division (A) of this section, nor shall any solid tire or rubber or other
resilient material, on any wheel of any such vehicle, be less than one inch
thick when measure from the top of the flanges of the tire channel.
      (2)   The weight of vehicle and load imposed upon the road surface by any
two successive axles, spaces four feet or less apart, shall not exceed 19,000
pounds for solid tires; or by any two successive axles spaced more than four
feet but less than eight feet apart, shall not exceed 24,000 pounds for solid
tires; or by any two successive axles, spaced eight feet or more apart, shall
not exceed 28,000 pounds for solid tires; nor shall the total weight of vehicle
and load exceed, for solid rubber tires, 28,000 pounds plus an additional 600
pounds for each foot or fraction thereof of spacing between the front axle and
the rear-most axle of the vehicle; nor shall the weight of the vehicle and load
imposed upon the road surface by any vehicle equipped with solid rubber tires
exceed 80% of the permissible weight of vehicle and load as provided for
pneumatic tires.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, when a vehicle is
towing another vehicle, such drawbar or other connection shall be of a length
such as will limit the spacing between the nearest axles of the respective
vehicles to a distance not in excess of 12.5 feet. If the provisions of this
division (C) are held to exceed the weight limitations or other provisions set
forth in the “Federal-Aid Highway Act of 1958”, 72 Stat. 902, 23 U.S.C. § 127,
this division (C) shall become null and void to the extent of such
inconsistency.
(R.C. § 5577.041)
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
      (2)   Whoever violates the weight provisions of this section shall be
punished as set forth in §
74.55(B).
   (E)   Modification of load limits. The load limits established in this
section may be modified or waived upon special permission granted as provided
in R.C. § 4513.34 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
§ 74.57 MAXIMUM WIDTH, HEIGHT, AND LENGTH.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be operated upon the public highways, streets,
bridges, and culverts within this municipality whose dimensions exceed those
specified in this section.
   (B)   No such vehicle shall have a width:
      (1)   In excess of 104 inches for passenger bus type vehicles operated
exclusively within the municipality.
      (2)   In excess of 102 inches, excluding such safety devices as are
required by law, for passenger bus type vehicles operated over freeways, and
such other state roads with minimum pavement widths of 22 feet, except those
roads or portions of roads over which operation of 102-inch buses is prohibited
by order of the Director of Transportation.
      (3)   In excess of 132 inches for traction engines.
      (4)   In excess of 102 inches for recreational vehicles, excluding safety
devices and retracted awnings and other appurtenances of six inches or less in
width and except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch
recreational vehicles on designated state highways or portions of highways.
      (5)   In excess of 102 inches, including load, for all other vehicles,
except that the Director may prohibit the operation of 102-inch vehicles on
such state highways or portions of state highways as the Director designates.
   (C)   No such vehicle shall have a length:
      (1)   In excess of 66 feet for passenger bus type vehicles and
articulated passenger bus type vehicles operated by a regional transit
authority pursuant to R.C. §§ 306.30 through 306.54.
      (2)   In excess of 45 feet for all other passenger bus type vehicles.
      (3)   In excess of 53 feet for any semitrailer when operated in a
commercial tractor- semitrailer combination, with or without load, except that
the Director may prohibit the operation of any such commercial tractor-
semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state highways as
the Director designates.
      (4)   In excess of 28.5 feet for any semitrailer or trailer when operated
in a commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-semitrailer-
semitrailer combination, except that the Director may prohibit the operation of
any such commercial tractor-semitrailer-trailer or commercial tractor-
semitrailer-semitrailer combination on such state highways or portions of state
highways as the Director designates.
      (5)   (a)   In excess of 97 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any interstate, United States route,
or state route, including reasonable access travel on all other roadways for a
distance not to exceed one road mile from any interstate, United States route,
or state route, not to exceed three saddlemounted vehicles, but which may
include one fullmount;
         (b)   In excess of 75 feet for drive-away saddlemount vehicle
transporter combinations and drive-away saddlemount with fullmount vehicle
transporter combinations when operated on any roadway not designated as an
interstate, United States route, or state route, not to exceed three
saddlemounted vehicles, but which may include one fullmount.
      (6)   In excess of 65 feet for any other combination of vehicles coupled
together, with or without load, except as provided in division (C)(3) and (C)
(4), and in division (E) of this section.
      (7)   In excess of 45 feet for recreational vehicles.
      (8)   In excess of 50 feet for all other vehicles, except trailers and
semitrailers, with or without load.
   (D)   No such vehicle shall have a height in excess of 13.5 feet, with or
without load.
   (E)   An automobile transporter or boat transporter shall be allowed a
length of 65 feet, and a stinger-steered automobile transporter or stinger-
steered boat transporter shall be allowed a length of 75 feet, except that the
load thereon may extend no more than four feet beyond the rear of such vehicles
and may extend no more than three feet beyond the front of such vehicles, and
except further that the Director may prohibit the operation of a stinger-
steered automobile transporter, stinger-steered boat transporter, or a B-train
assembly on any state highway or portion of any state highway that the Director
designates.
   (F)   (1)   The widths prescribed in division (B) of this section shall not
include side mirrors, turn signal lamps, marker lamps, handholds for cab entry
and egress, flexible fender extensions, mud flaps, splash and spray suppressant
devices, and load-induced tire bulge.
      (2)   The widths prescribed in division (B)(5) of this section shall not
include automatic covering devices, tarp and tarp hardware, and tiedown
assemblies, provided these safety devices do not extend more than three inches
from either side of the vehicle.
      (3)   The lengths prescribed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(7) shall not
include safety devices, bumpers attached to the front or rear of such bus or
combination, non-property carrying devices or components that do not extend
more than 24 inches beyond the rear of the vehicle and are needed for loading
or unloading, B-train assembly used between the first and second semitrailer of
a commercial tractor-semitrailer-semitrailer combination, energy conservation
devices as provided in any regulations adopted by the Secretary of the United
States Department of Transportation, or any noncargo-carrying refrigerator
equipment attached to the front of trailers and semitrailers. In special cases,
vehicles that dimensions exceed those prescribed by this section may operate in
accordance with rules adopted by the Director.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to fire engines, fire trucks, or
other vehicles or apparatus belonging to the municipality or to the volunteer
fire department thereof or used by such department in the discharge of its
functions. This section does not apply to vehicles and pole trailers used in
the transportation of wooden and metal poles, nor to the transportation of
pipes or well-drilling equipment, nor to farm machinery and equipment.
      (2)   The owner or operator of any vehicle, machinery, or equipment not
specifically enumerated in this section but the dimensions of which exceed the
dimensions provided by this section, when operating the same on the highways
and streets of the municipality, shall comply with the rules of the Director
governing such movement. Any person adversely affected shall have the same
right of appeal as provided in R.C. Chapter 119.
      (3)   This section does not require the municipality or any railroad or
other private corporation to provide sufficient vertical clearance to permit
the operation of such vehicle, or to make any changes in or about existing
structures now crossing streets, roads, and other public thoroughfares.
   (H)   As used in this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 5577.05)
   (I)   No person shall violate any rule or regulation promulgated by the
Director of Transportation in accordance with R.C. § 5577.05.
(R.C. § 5577.06)
   (J)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense; on a second or subsequent offense, such person is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 5577.99(C))
§ 74.58 STATEMENT OF GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT.
   (A)   No person shall issue or aid in issuing any bill of lading or other
document of like nature in lieu thereof, which bill or document is to accompany
a shipment of goods or property by truck, trailer, semitrailer, commercial
tractor, or any other commercial vehicle used for the transportation of
property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons, with intent
to defraud by misrepresentation thereon the weight of such goods of property to
be so transported.
   (B)   Any driver or operator of a commercial car, trailer or semitrailer may
obtain from any person, firm, partnership, corporation or association,
including the owner, lessee, or operator of such commercial car, trailer or
semitrailer, owning and operating sealed scales in this state, a written
“statement of gross vehicle weight” showing the gross weight of the vehicle
including the cargo on the vehicle, the name and address of the person issuing
the statement, and the date and place where the vehicle and its cargo were
weighed. The driver or operator of the commercial car, trailer or semitrailer
shall retain such statement of gross vehicle weight on his or her person, and
any law enforcement officer may request that such driver or operator exhibit it
to him or her. If, upon examining the statement of gross vehicle weight, the
law enforcement officer has reason to believe that the information contained
therein is correct in every respect, he or she shall indorse it with his or her
name and the date and place where it was exhibited to him or her. The law
enforcement officer may then permit such driver or operator to proceed without
weighing by a law enforcement officer. No person shall willfully issue a
written statement of gross vehicle weight and knowingly give any false
information in such statement.
(R.C. § 5577.10)
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not more
than $5,000 or imprisoned for not less than 30 days nor more than six months,
or both.
(R.C. § 5577.99(D))
§ 74.59 WHEEL PROTECTORS REQUIRED ON HEAVY COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or operate, or cause to be driven or operated,
any commercial car, trailer, or semitrailer, used for the transportation of
goods or property, the gross weight of which, with load, exceeds three tons,
upon the public highways, streets, bridges, and culverts within the
municipality, unless such vehicle is equipped with suitable metal protectors or
substantial flexible flaps on the rearmost wheels of such vehicle or
combination of vehicles to prevent, as far as practicable, the wheels from
throwing dirt, water, or other materials on the windshields of following
vehicles. Such protectors or flaps shall have a ground clearance of not more
than one-third of the distance from the center of the rearmost axle to the
center of the flaps under any conditions of loading of the vehicle, and they
shall be at least as wide as the tires they are protecting. If the vehicle is
so designed and constructed that such requirements are accomplished by means of
fenders, body construction, or other means of enclosure, then no such
protectors or flaps are required. Rear wheels not covered at the top by
fenders, bodies, or other parts of the vehicle shall be covered at the top by
protective means extending at least to the center line of the rearmost axle.
(R.C. § 5577.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $25.
(R.C. § 5577.99(E))
§ 74.60 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES; PROSECUTION; APPLICATION OF MONIES.
   Any person violating any law relating to or regulating the use of the
improved public roads shall be liable for all damage resulting to any such
street, highway, bridge or culvert by reason of such violation. In case of any
injury to such street, highway, bridge or culvert, such damages shall be
collected by civil action for recovery of such damages brought by the proper
authorities of the municipality. All damages collected under this section shall
be paid into the treasury of the municipality and credited to any fund for the
repairs of streets, highways, roads, bridges or culverts.
(R.C. § 5577.12)
§ 74.61 WEIGHT EXCEPTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COAL TRUCK. Means a truck transporting coal from the site where it is
mined when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      FARM COMMODITIES. Includes livestock, bulk milk, corn, soybeans, tobacco
and wheat.
      FARM MACHINERY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      FARM TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation from a farm of farm
commodities when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      LOG TRUCK. Means a truck used in the transportation of timber from the
site of its cutting when the truck is operated in accordance with this section.
      SOLID WASTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3743.01.
      SOLID WASTE HAUL VEHICLE. Means a vehicle hauling solid waste for which a
bill of lading has not been issued.
   (B)   (1)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the
described conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be imposed:
         (a)   A coal truck transporting coal, from the place of production to
the first point of delivery where title to the coal is transferred;
         (b)   A farm truck or farm machinery transporting farm commodities,
from the place of production to the first point of delivery where the
commodities are weighed and title to the commodities is transferred;
         (c)   A log truck transporting timber, from the site of its cutting to
the first point of delivery where the timber is transferred;
         (d)   A solid waste haul vehicle hauling solid waste, from the place
of production to the first point of delivery where the solid waste is disposed
of or title to the solid waste is transferred.
      (2)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of
this section and operated under the conditions described in that division does
not exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
does not exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than
7.5%, no penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (C)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (B)(1) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceeds the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to
the allowance provided by this division (B) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B) of this section does not apply to the operation of
a farm truck, log truck, or farm machinery transporting farm commodities during
the months of February and March.
      (2)   Regardless of when the operation occurs, division (B) of this
section does not apply to the operation of a vehicle on either of the
following:
         (a)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
         (b)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.042)
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, the following vehicles under the described
conditions may exceed by no more than 7.5% the weight provisions of R.C. §§
5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall be imposed:
      (1)   A surface mining truck transporting minerals from the place where
the minerals are loaded to any of the following:
         (a)   The construction site where the minerals are discharged;
         (b)   The place where title to the minerals is transferred;
         (c)   The place of processing.
      (2)   A vehicle transporting hot mix asphalt material from the place
where the material is first mixed to the paving site where the material is
discharged;
      (3)   A vehicle transporting concrete from the place where the material
is first mixed to the site where the material is discharged;
      (4)   A vehicle transporting manure, turf, sod, or silage from the site
where the material is first produced to the first place of delivery;
      (5)   A vehicle transporting chips, sawdust, mulch, bark, pulpwood,
biomass, or firewood from the site where the product is first produced or
harvested to first point where the product is transferred.
   (F)   In addition, if any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this
section and operated under the conditions described in that division do not
exceed by more than 7.5% the gross vehicle weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01
to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and do not
exceed the wheel or axle-load limits of those sections by more than 7.5%, no
penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, for a wheel or axle overload shall be imposed.
   (G)   If any of the vehicles listed in division (E) of this section and
operated under the conditions described in that division exceed the weight
provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, by more than the percentage allowance of either divisions
(E) or (F) of this section, both of the following apply without regard to the
allowance provided by division (E) or (F) of this section:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (H)   Divisions (E) and (F) of this section do not apply to the operation of
a vehicle listed in division (E) of this section on either of the following:
      (1)   A highway that is part of the interstate system;
      (2)   A highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.043)
   (I)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a vehicle fueled solely by compressed natural
gas or liquid natural gas or powered primarily by means of an electric battery
may exceed by not more than 2,000 pounds the gross vehicle weight provisions of
R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, or the axle load limits of those sections.
   (J)   If a vehicle described in division (I) of this section exceeds the
weight provisions of R.C. §§ 5577.01 to 5577.09, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, by more than the allowance provided for in
division (I) of this section, both of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicable penalty prescribed in R.C. § 5577.99, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   The civil liability imposed by R.C. § 5577.12, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (K)   Division (I) of this section does not apply to the operation of a
vehicle on a highway, road, or bridge that is subject to reduced maximum
weights under R.C. § 4513.33, 5577.07, 5577.071, 5577.08, 5577.09, or 5591.42,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 5577.044)
   (L)   Fire engine weight exemptions. 
      (1)   As used in this division (L), FIRE ENGINE means a fire engine, fire
truck, or other vehicle or apparatus belonging to or used by any municipal,
township, or volunteer fire department, while in the discharge of its
functions.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. §§ 5577.02 and 5577.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, a person may do both of the following without a
written permit issued under R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
         (a)   Operate a two-axle fire engine, with a front axle maximum weight
of 24,000 pounds and a rear axle maximum weight of 33,500 pounds and a minimum
wheelbase of 15 feet, on all roadways in the state;
         (b)   Operate a fire engine with a maximum gross vehicle weight of
86,000 pounds on the interstate highway system and within one road mile of an
interstate highway system entrance or exit ramp.
      (3)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4513.34, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, for any fire engine that requires a permit, the Ohio
Director of Transportation or local authority shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Issue the permit at no cost to the municipal, township, or
volunteer fire department;
         (b)   Issue a permit that expires five years after the date of
issuance.
(R.C. § 5577.045)
CHAPTER 75: BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
75.01   Bicycles; application of Title VII
   
75.02   Operation of motorized bicycle
   
75.03   Electric bicycles
   
75.04   Rules for bicycles, motorcycles, and snowmobiles
   
75.05   Prohibition against attaching bicycles and sleds to vehicles
   
75.06   Riding bicycles; motorcycles abreast
   
75.07   Equipment of bicycles
Snowmobiles, Off-Highway Motorcycles, and All-Purpose Vehicles
   
75.25   Definitions
   
75.26   Equipment
   
75.27   Code application; prohibited operation
   
75.28   Permitted operation
   
75.29   Licensing requirements of operator
   
75.30   Maintenance of vehicles for hire
   
75.31   Accident reports
   
75.32   Impounding of vehicle
   
75.33   Local control within police power
   
75.34   Registration of vehicles
   
75.35   Certificate of title; prohibitions
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
Statutory reference:
   Bicycle regulations to be consistent with state law, see R.C. § 4511.07(A)
(8)
   Protective eye devices required for motorcycle operators and passengers;
helmets required for persons under 18 years of age, see O.A.C. § 4501-17-01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 75.01 BICYCLES; APPLICATION OF TITLE VII.
   (A)   The provisions of this title that are applicable to bicycles and
electric bicycles apply whenever a bicycle or electric bicycle is operated upon
any highway or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, a bicycle operator
or electric bicycle operator who violates any provisions of this title
described in division (A) of this section that is applicable to bicycles or
electric bicycles may be issued a ticket, citation, or summons by a law
enforcement officer for the violation in the same manner as the operator of a
motor vehicle would be cited for the same violation. A person who commits any
such violation while operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not have any
points assessed against the person’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary license under R.C. §
4510.036.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) of this section, in the case of a
violation of any provision of this title described in division (A) of this
section by a bicycle operator, electric bicycle operator, or motor vehicle
operator when the trier of fact finds that the violation by the motor vehicle
operator endangered the lives of bicycle riders or electric bicycle riders at
the time of the violation, the court, notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio
Revised Code to the contrary, may require the bicycle operator, electric
bicycle operator, or motor vehicle operator to take and successfully complete a
bicycling skills course approved by the court in addition to or in lieu of any
penalty otherwise prescribed by this Traffic Code or the Ohio Revised Code for
that violation.
   (D)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to violations of
R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 4511.52)
§ 75.02 OPERATION OF MOTORIZED BICYCLE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized bicycle upon a highway or any
public or private property used by the public for purposes of vehicular travel
or parking, unless all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The person is 14 or 15 years of age and holds a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license issued after the person has passed the test provided
for in this section, or the person is 16 years of age or older and holds either
a valid commercial driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or a
driver’s license issued under R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid motorized bicycle
license issued after the person has passed the test provided for in this
section, except that if a person is 16 years of age, has a valid probationary
motorized bicycle license and desires a motorized bicycle license, the person
is not required to comply with the testing requirements provided for in this
section.
      (2)   The motorized bicycle is equipped in accordance with the rules
adopted under division (B) of this section and is in proper working order.
      (3)   The person, if under 18 years of age, is wearing a protective
helmet on the person’s head with the chin strap properly fastened and the
motorized bicycle is equipped with a rearview mirror.
      (4)   The person operates the motorized bicycle when practicable within
three feet of the right edge of the roadway obeying all traffic rules
applicable to vehicles.
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety, subject to R.C. Chapter 119, shall
adopt and promulgate rules concerning protective helmets, the equipment of
motorized bicycles, and the testing and qualifications of persons who do not
hold a valid driver’s or commercial driver’s license. The test shall be as near
as practicable to the examination required for a motorcycle operator’s
endorsement under R.C. § 4507.11. The test shall also require the operator to
give an actual demonstration of the operator’s ability to operate and control a
motorized bicycle by driving one under the supervision of an examining officer.
   (C)   Every motorized bicycle license expires on the birthday of the
applicant in the fourth or eighth year after the date it is issued, based on
the period of renewal requested by the applicant. No motorized bicycle license
shall be issued for a period longer than eight years. A person who is 65 years
of age or older may only apply for a motorized bicycle license that expires on
the birthday of the applicant in the fourth year after the date it is issued.
   (D)   No person operating a motorized bicycle shall carry another person
upon the motorized bicycle.
   (E)   The protective helmet and rearview mirror required by division (A)(3)
of this section shall, on and after January 1, 1985, conform with rules adopted
by the Director under division (B) of this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A), (D), or (E) of this section is guilty
of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.521)
Statutory reference:
   Suspension of probationary motorized bicycle license by the state, see R.C.
§ 4510.34
§ 75.03 ELECTRIC BICYCLES.
   (A)   (1)   On and after January 1, 2020, manufacturers and distributors of
electric bicycles shall permanently affix a label, in a prominent location, to
each electric bicycle. The label shall specify whether the electric bicycle is
a class 1, class 2, or class 3 electric bicycle, the top assisted speed that
the electric bicycle is capable of reaching, and the motor wattage of the
electric bicycle.
      (2)   No person shall modify an electric bicycle in a manner that changes
the top assisted speed that the electric bicycle is capable of reaching unless
the person also modifies the label required under division (A)(1) of this
section to reflect the modification.
   (B)   (1)   The manufacturer of an electric bicycle shall ensure that the
electric bicycle complies with the equipment and manufacturing requirements for
bicycles established by the consumer product safety commission under 16 C.F.R.
§§ 1512 et seq.
      (2)   The manufacturer shall manufacture all class 1 electric bicycles
and class 3 electric bicycles so that when the rider ceases pedaling the
electric motor ceases to provide assistance. The manufacturer shall manufacture
all class 2 electric bicycles so that when the rider applies the brakes or
releases or activates a switch or similar mechanism the electric motor ceases
to provide assistance.
      (3)   All class 3 electric bicycles shall be equipped with a speedometer
that displays the speed of the electric bicycle in miles per hour.
   (C)   (1)   The operation of a class 1 electric bicycle and a class 2
electric bicycle is permitted on a path set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or on a shared-use path, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule prohibits the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle or class 2 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (2)   No person shall operate a class 3 electric bicycle on a path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles or a shared-use path unless that path
is within or adjacent to a highway or the county, township, municipal
corporation, or local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60 with
control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use of a
class 3 electric bicycle on such a path.
      (3)   No person shall operate a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2
electric bicycle, or a class 3 electric bicycle on a path that is intended to
be used primarily for mountain biking, hiking, equestrian use, or other similar
uses, or any other single track or natural surface trail that has historically
been reserved for non-motorized use, unless the county, township, municipal
corporation, other local authority, or state agency as defined in R.C. § 1.60
with control over the path by resolution, ordinance, or rule authorizes the use
of a class 1 electric bicycle, a class 2 electric bicycle, or a class 3
electric bicycle on such a path.
      (4)   Divisions (C)(2) and (C)(3) of this section do not apply to a law
enforcement officer, or other person sworn to enforce the criminal and traffic
laws of the state, using an electric bicycle while in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (D)   (1)   No person under 16 years of age shall operate a class 3 electric
bicycle; however, a person under 16 years of age may ride as a passenger on a
class 3 electric bicycle that is designed to accommodate passengers.
      (2)   No person shall operate or be a passenger on a class 3 electric
bicycle unless the person is wearing a protective helmet that meets the
standards established by the Consumer Product Safety Commission or the American
Society for Testing and Materials.
   (E)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever operates
an electric bicycle in a manner that is prohibited under division (C) of this
section and whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has been
convicted of two or more predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever
violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   The offenses established under division (E)(1) of this section are
strict liability offenses and strict liability is a culpable mental state for
purposes of R.C. § 2901.20. The designation of these offenses as strict
liability offenses shall not be construed to imply that any other offense, for
which there is no specified degree of culpability, is not a strict liability
offense.
(R.C. § 4511.522)
§ 75.04 RULES FOR BICYCLES, MOTORCYCLES, AND SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   As used in this section, SNOWMOBILE has the same meaning as given that
term in R.C. § 4519.01.
   (B)   (1)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall ride
other than upon or astride the permanent and regular seat attached thereto or
carry any other person upon such bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon a
firmly attached and regular seat thereon, and no person shall ride upon a
bicycle or electric bicycle other than upon such a firmly attached and regular
seat.
      (2)   No person operating a motorcycle shall ride other than upon or
astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle attached thereto, or carry any
other person upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached and regular
seat or saddle thereon, and no person shall ride upon a motorcycle other than
upon such a firmly attached and regular seat or saddle.
      (3)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a
saddle other than while sitting astride the saddle, facing forward, with one
leg on each side of the motorcycle.
      (4)   No person shall ride upon a motorcycle that is equipped with a seat
other than while sitting upon the seat.
      (5)   No person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle, or article that prevents the driver from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
      (6)   No bicycle, electric bicycle, or motorcycle shall be used to carry
more persons at one time than the number for which it is designed and equipped.
No motorcycle shall be operated on a highway when the handlebars rise higher
than the shoulders of the operator when the operator is seated in the
operator’s seat or saddle.
   (C)   (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no person
shall operate or be a passenger on a snowmobile or motorcycle without using
safety glasses or other protective eye device. Except as provided in division
(C)(3) of this section, no person who is under the age of 18 years, or who
holds a motorcycle operator’s endorsement or license bearing a “novice”
designation that is currently in effect as provided in R.C. § 4507.13, shall
operate a motorcycle on a highway, or be a passenger on a motorcycle, unless
wearing a protective helmet on the person’s head, and no other person shall be
a passenger on a motorcycle operated by such a person unless similarly wearing
a protective helmet. The helmet, safety glasses, or other protective eye device
shall conform with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety. The
provisions of this paragraph or a violation thereof shall not be used in the
trial of any civil action.
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(3) of this section, no
person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary instruction permit and
temporary instruction permit identification card issued by the Registrar of
Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 unless the person, at the time of
such operation, is wearing on the person’s head a protective helmet that
conforms with rules adopted by the Ohio Director of Public Safety.
         (b)   No person shall operate a motorcycle with a valid temporary
instruction permit and temporary instruction permit identification card issued
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles pursuant to R.C. § 4507.05 in any of the
following circumstances:
            1.   At any time when lighted lights are required by R.C. § 4513.03
(A)(1);
            2.   While carrying a passenger;
            3.   On any limited access highway or heavily congested roadway.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2)(a) of this section do not apply to a
person who operates or is a passenger in an autocycle or cab-enclosed
motorcycle when the occupant compartment top is in place enclosing the
occupants.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the carrying
of a child in a seat or trailer that is designed for carrying children and is
firmly attached to the bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense, the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic
offense, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates division (B) or (C)(1) or
(C)(2) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.53)
§ 75.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST ATTACHING BICYCLES AND SLEDS TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   No person riding upon any bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy vehicle shall attach the same or self
to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (2)   No operator shall knowingly permit any person riding upon any
bicycle, electric bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled, skateboard, or toy
vehicle to attach the same or self to any vehicle while it is moving upon a
roadway.
      (3)   This section does not apply to towing a disabled vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (C)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.54)
§ 75.06 RIDING BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES ABREAST.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle or electric bicycle upon a roadway
shall ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable obeying all
traffic rules applicable to vehicles and exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles, electric bicycles, or motorcycles upon a
roadway shall ride not more than two abreast in a single lane, except on paths
or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, electric
bicycles, or motorcycles.
   (C)   This section does not require a person operating a bicycle or electric
bicycle to ride at the edge of the roadway when it is unreasonable or unsafe to
do so. Conditions that may require riding away from the edge of the roadway
include when necessary to avoid fixed or moving objects, parked or moving
vehicles, surface hazards, or if it otherwise is unsafe or impracticable to do
so, including if the lane is too narrow for the bicycle or electric bicycle and
an overtaking vehicle to travel safely side by side within the lane.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   If the offender commits the offense while distracted and the
distracting activity is a contributing factor to the commission of the offense,
the offender is subject to the additional fine established under §
70.99(B).
(R.C. § 4511.55)
§ 75.07 EQUIPMENT OF BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle or electric bicycle when in use at the times specified
in R.C. § 4513.03 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall be
equipped with the following:
      (1)   A lamp mounted on the front of either the bicycle or electric
bicycle or the operator that shall emit a white light visible from a distance
of at least 500 feet to the front and 300 feet to the sides. A generator-
powered lamp that emits light only when the bicycle or electric bicycle is
moving may be used to meet this requirement.
      (2)   A red reflector on the rear that shall be visible from all
distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when directly in front of
lawful lower beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle;
      (3)   A lamp emitting either flashing or steady red light visible from a
distance of 500 feet to the rear shall be used in addition to the red
reflector. If the red lamp performs as a reflector in that it is visible as
specified in division (A)(2) of this section, the red lamp may serve as the
reflector and a separate reflector is not required.
   (B)   Additional lamps and reflectors may be used in addition to those
required under division (A) of this section, except that red lamps and red
reflectors shall not be used on the front of the bicycle or electric bicycle
and white lamps and white reflectors shall not be used on the rear of the
bicycle or electric bicycle.
   (C)   A bicycle or electric bicycle may be equipped with a device capable of
giving an audible signal, except that a bicycle or electric bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle or electric bicycle
any siren or whistle.
   (D)   Every bicycle and electric bicycle shall be equipped with an adequate
brake when used on a street or highway.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.56)
SNOWMOBILES, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLES, AND ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLES
§ 75.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
cross-country travel on land and water, or on more than one type of terrain,
and steered by wheels or caterpillar treads, or any combination thereof,
including vehicles that operate on a cushion of air, vehicles commonly known as
all-terrain vehicles, all season vehicles, mini-bikes and trail bikes. The term
does not include a utility vehicle as defined in R.C. § 4501.01 or any vehicle
principally used in playing golf, any motor vehicle or aircraft required to be
registered under R.C. Chapter 4503 or R.C. Chapter 4561, and any vehicle
excepted from definition as a motor vehicle by R.C. § 4501.01(B).
   DEALER. Any person or firm engaged in the business of manufacturing or
selling snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles at
wholesale or retail, or who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes snowmobiles,
off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles for hire.
   ELECTRONIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   ELECTRONIC DEALER. A dealer whom the Registrar of Motor Vehicles designates
under R.C. § 4519.511.
   ELECTRONIC RECORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   INTERSTATE HIGHWAY. Any part of the interstate system of highways as defined
in subsection (e), 90 Stat. 431 (1976), 23 U.S.C. § 103, as amended.
   LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY OR FREEWAY. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
5511.02.
   MINI-TRUCK. A vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an electric
motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal combustion
engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters or less,
has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds, contains an enclosed cabin and a
seat for the vehicle operator, resembles a pickup truck or van with a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle, and was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards.
   OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE. Every motorcycle, as defined in R.C. § 4511.01, that
is designed to be operated primarily on lands other than a street or highway.
   OPERATOR. Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle.
   OWNER. Any person or firm, other than a lienholder or dealer, having title
to a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, or other right
to the possession thereof.
   PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
4509.01.
   SNOWMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for use on snow or
ice, and steered by skis, runners or caterpillar treads.
   STATE HIGHWAY and STATE ROUTE. Have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
(R.C. § 4519.01)
§ 75.26 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   In addition to any rules or regulations promulgated by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety pursuant to R.C. § 4519.20 and R.C. Chapter 119,
equipment of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles
shall include but not necessarily be limited to requirements for the following
items of equipment:
      (1)   At least one headlight having a minimum candlepower of sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and objects at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (2)   At least one red tail light having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to be plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the
rear under normal atmospheric conditions during hours of darkness;
      (3)   Every snowmobile, while traveling on packed snow, shall be capable
of carrying a driver who weighs 175 pounds or more, and, while carrying such
driver, be capable of stopping in no more than 40 feet from an initial steady
speed of 20 miles per hour, or locking its traction belt; and
      (4)   A muffler system capable of precluding the emission of excessive
smoke or exhaust fumes, and of limiting the engine noise of vehicles. On
snowmobiles manufactured after January 1, 1973, such requirement shall include
sound dampening equipment such that noise does not exceed 82 decibels on the
“A” scale at 50 feet as measured according to SAE J192 (September 1970).
   (B)   No person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle in violation of this section, except that equipment
specified in division (A)(1) and (A)(2) of this section shall not be required
on snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, or all-purpose vehicles operated
during the daylight hours.
(R.C. § 4519.20(A), (B))
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer for sale, lease, rent or otherwise furnish
for hire in this municipality any new snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle that fails to comply with any rule adopted by the Ohio
Director of Public Safety under R.C. § 4519.20 after the effective date of the
rule.
(R.C. § 4519.22(A))
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (B) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (B)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.20(B), whoever violates division (B) of this
section shall be fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not
more than three days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.20(C))
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (C) of this section shall be fined not more than $50. If the offender
within the preceding year previously has committed a violation of division (C)
of this section or of R.C. § 4519.22(A), whoever violates this section shall be
fined not less than $15 nor more than $100, imprisoned not more than three
days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.22(B))
§ 75.27 CODE APPLICATION; PROHIBITED OPERATION.
   (A)   The applicable provisions of this traffic code apply to the operation
of snowmobiles, off- highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles, except that
no person shall operate a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On any state highway, including a limited access highway or freeway
or the right- of-way thereof, except for emergency travel during such time and
in such manner as the Ohio Director of Public Safety designates or except as
authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F);
      (2)   On any private property, or in any nursery or planting area,
without the permission of the owner or other person having the right to
possession of the property;
      (3)   On any land or waters controlled by the state, except at those
locations where a sign has been posted permitting such operation;
      (4)   On the tracks or right-of-way of any operating railroad;
      (5)   While transporting any firearm, bow or other implement for hunting
that is not unloaded and securely encased;
      (6)   For the purpose of chasing, pursuing, capturing or killing any
animal or wild fowl; or
      (7)   During the time from sunset to sunrise, unless displaying lighted
lights as required by R.C. § 4519.20 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.40)
Cross-reference:
   Operation restricted for mini-trucks and low-speed, under-speed, or utility
vehicles, see §
73.16
§ 75.28 PERMITTED OPERATION.
   Snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycles, and all-purpose vehicles may be
operated as follows:
   (A)   To make a crossing of a highway, other than a highway as designated in
R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
whenever the crossing can be made in safety and will not interfere with the
movement of vehicular traffic approaching from any direction on the highway,
and provided that the operator yields the right-of-way to any approaching
traffic that presents an immediate hazard;
   (B)   On highways in the county or township road systems whenever the local
authority having jurisdiction over such highways so permits;
   (C)   Off and alongside street or highway for limited distances from the
point of unloading from a conveyance to the point at which the snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle is intended and authorized to be
operated;
   (D)   On the berm or shoulder of a highway, other than a highway as
designated in R.C. § 4519.40(A)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, when the terrain permits such operation to be undertaken safely and
without the necessity of entering any traffic lane;
   (E)   On the berm or shoulder or a county or township road, while traveling
from one area of operation of the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle to another such area.
   (F)   For snowmobiles without metal studded tracks and all-purpose vehicles,
on state highways located on an island in Lake Erie, including limited access
highways and freeways, between the first day of November and the thirtieth day
of April, provided that all of the following conditions apply:
      (1)   The operator has a valid driver’s license as required under R.C. §
4519.44.
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle is in compliance with rules
governing safety equipment adopted under R.C. § 4519.20.
      (3)   The owner of the snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle maintains proof
of financial responsibility for both on-road and off-road use of the snowmobile
or all-purpose vehicle.
      (4)   The operator obeys all traffic rules and regulations.
(R.C. § 4519.41)
§ 75.29 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   No person who does not hold a valid, current motor vehicle driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, motorcycle operator’s endorsement or probationary
license, issued under R.C. Chapter 4506 or R.C. Chapter 4507 or a valid,
current driver’s license issued by another jurisdiction, shall operate a
snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any street or
highway in this municipality, on any portion of the right-of-way thereof, or on
any public land or waters.
   (B)   No person who is less than 16 years of age shall operate a snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle on any land or waters other than
private property or waters owned by or leased to the person’s parent or
guardian, unless accompanied by another person who is 18 years of age or older,
and who holds a license as provided in division (A) of this section, except
that the Ohio Department of Natural Resources may permit such operation on
state controlled land under its jurisdiction when such person is less than 16
years of age and is accompanied by a parent or guardian who is a licensed
driver 18 years of age or older.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $50 nor
more than $500, imprisoned not less than 3 nor more than 30 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.44)
§ 75.30 MAINTENANCE OF VEHICLES FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Any dealer who rents, leases or otherwise furnishes a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle for hire shall maintain the vehicle
in safe operating condition. No dealer, or agent or employee of a dealer, shall
rent, lease or otherwise furnish a snowmobile, off- highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle for hire to any person who does not hold a license as required
by R.C. § 4519.44(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or to
any person whom the dealer or an agent or employee of the dealer has reasonable
cause to believe is incompetent to operate the vehicle in a safe and lawful
manner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not less than $100 nor
more than $500.
(R.C. § 4519.45)
§ 75.31 ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator of a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle involved in any accident resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or damage to the property of any person in excess of $100 shall report
the accident within 48 hours to the Chief of Police, and within 30 days shall
forward a written report of the accident to the Ohio Registrar of Motor
Vehicles on a form prescribed by the Registrar. If the operator is physically
incapable of making the reports and there is another participant in the
accident not so incapacitated, the participant shall make the reports. In the
event there is no other participant, and the operator is other than the owner,
the owner, within the prescribed periods of time, shall make the reports.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or other person authorized by R.C. §§
4519.42 and 4519.43 who investigates or receives information of an accident
involving a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall
forward to the Registrar a written report of the accident within 48 hours.
(R.C. § 4519.46)
§ 75.32 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever a person is found guilty of operating a snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle in violation of any rule authorized
to be adopted under R.C. § 4519.21 or 4519.42, the trial judge of any court of
record, in addition to or independent of any other penalties provided by law,
may impound for not less than 60 days the certificate of registration and
license plate, if applicable, of that snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or
all-purpose vehicle. The court shall send the impounded certificate of
registration and license plate, if applicable, to the Registrar of Motor
Vehicles, who shall retain the certificate of registration and license plate,
if applicable, until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
   (B)   If a court impounds the certificate of registration and license plate
of an all-purpose vehicle pursuant to R.C. § 2911.21, the court shall send the
impounded certificate of registration and license plate to the Registrar, who
shall retain them until the expiration of the period of impoundment.
(R.C. § 4519.47)
§ 75.33 LOCAL CONTROL WITHIN POLICE POWER.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall prevent the municipality from
regulating the operation of snowmobiles, off-highway motorcycle, and all-
purpose vehicles on streets and highways and other public property under
municipal jurisdiction, and within the reasonable exercise of the police power,
except that no registration or licensing of any snowmobile, off-highway
motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle required to be registered or titled under
R.C. Chapter 4519 shall be required.
(R.C. § 4519.48)
§ 75.34 REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B), (C) and (D) of this section,
no person shall operate any snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose
vehicle within this municipality unless the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle is registered and numbered in accordance with R.C. §§
4519.03 and 4519.04.
      (2)   Except as provided in R.C. § 4511.215 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, no registration is required for a mini-truck that is
operated within this state. A mini-truck may be operated only in accordance
with R.C. § 4511.215 and R.C. § 4519.401, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle that is operated exclusively upon lands owned by the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle, or on lands to which the owner of the
snowmobile or off-highway motorcycle has a contractual right.
      (2)   No registration is required for an all-purpose vehicle that is used
primarily for agricultural purposes when the owner qualifies for the current
agricultural use valuation tax credit, unless it is to be used on any public
land, trail, or right-of-way.
      (3)   Any all-purpose vehicle exempted from registration under division
(B)(2) of this section and operated for agricultural purposes may use public
roads and rights-of-way when traveling from one farm field to another, when
such use does not violate R.C. § 4519.41.
      (4)   No registration is required for a snowmobile or all-purpose vehicle
that is operated on a state highway as authorized by R.C. § 4519.41(F).
   (C)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a resident of another
state whenever that state has in effect a registration law similar to R.C.
Chapter 4519 and the snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all- purpose
vehicle is properly registered under that state’s law. Any snowmobile, off-
highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this state by a
resident of a state not having a registration law similar to R.C. Chapter 4519
shall comply with R.C. § 4519.09.
   (D)   No registration is required for a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle,
or all-purpose vehicle owned and used in this municipality by the United
States, another state or a political subdivision thereof, but the snowmobile,
off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle shall display the name of the
owner thereon.
   (E)   The owner or operator of any all-purpose vehicle operated or used upon
the waters in this municipality shall comply with R.C. Chapter 1547 and R.C.
Chapter 1548 relative to the operation of watercraft.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $100.
(R.C. § 4519.02)
Statutory reference:
   Destruction or disposal of vehicle; transfer of ownership; change of
address; loss of certificate, see R.C. § 4519.05
   Registration of emergency vehicles, see R.C. § 4519.08
   Registration procedure, see R.C. § 4519.03
   Temporary license placards and fees, see R.C. § 4519.10
   Temporary operating permit for certain nonresidents, see R.C. § 4519.09
§ 75.35 CERTIFICATE OF TITLE; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle without having a certificate of title for the off-highway motorcycle or
all-purpose vehicle if such a certificate is required by R.C. Chapter 4519 to
be issued for the off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose vehicle, or, if a
physical certificate of title has not been issued for it, operate an off-
highway motorcycle or all- purpose vehicle knowing that the ownership
information related to the motorcycle or vehicle has not been entered into the
automated title processing system by a Clerk of a Court of Common Pleas.
      (2)   Operate in this municipality an off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle is a certificate of title to the off-highway motorcycle or all-
purpose vehicle has been issued and then has been canceled.
      (3)   Fail to surrender any certificate of title upon cancellation of it
by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles and notice of the cancellation as prescribed
in R.C. Chapter 4519.
      (4)   Fail to surrender the certificate of title to a Clerk of a Court of
Common Pleas as provided in R.C. Chapter 4519, in case of the destruction or
dismantling of, or change in, the off- highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle described in the certificate of title.
      (5)   Violate any provision of R.C. §§ 4519.51 through 4519.70 for which
no penalty is otherwise provided or any lawful rules adopted pursuant to those
sections.
      (6)   Operate in this state an off-highway motorcycle or all-purpose
vehicle knowing that the certificate of title to or ownership of the motorcycle
or vehicle as otherwise reflected in the automated title processing system has
been canceled.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be fined not more than $200,
imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both.
(R.C. § 4519.66)
Statutory reference:
   Certificate of title: rules and procedures, see R.C. §§ 4519.51 et seq.
   Stolen vehicles and restrictions on sale or transfer, felony provisions, see
R.C. § 4519.67
CHAPTER 76: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
76.01   Prohibition against parking on highways
   
76.02   Condition when motor vehicle left unattended
   
76.03   Police may remove illegally parked vehicle
   
76.04   Parking prohibitions
   
76.05   Parking near curb; privileges for persons with disabilities
   
76.06   Parking on private property in violation of posted prohibition
   
76.07   Selling, washing or repairing vehicle upon roadway
   
76.08   Truck loading zones
   
76.09   Bus stops and taxicab stands
   
76.10   Parking in alleys and narrow streets; exceptions
   
76.11   Registered owner prima facie liable for unlawful parking
   
76.12   Waiver
   
76.13   Commercial truck parking prohibited
   
76.14   Commercial vehicle parking prohibited
   
76.15   Boat and trailer parking prohibited
   
76.16   Recreational vehicles, boat and trailer parking prohibited
   
76.17   Motor vehicles parked at residential units
   
76.18   Parking restrictions in village parking lots
   
76.19   Parking during heavy snowfall
 
   
76.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Noncriminal parking infractions, local option to create, see R.C. Chapter
4521
§ 76.01 PROHIBITION AGAINST PARKING ON HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon any highway, no person shall stop, park, or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled
part of the highway if it is practicable to stop, park, or so leave such
vehicle off the paved or main traveled part of the highway. In every event a
clear and unobstructed portion of the highway opposite such standing vehicle
shall be left for the free passage of other vehicles, and a clear view of such
stopped vehicle shall be available from a distance of 200 feet in each
direction upon such highway.
      (2)   This section does not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is
disabled while on the paved or improved or main traveled portion of a highway
in such manner and to such extent that it is impossible to avoid stopping and
temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in such position.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.66)
§ 76.02 CONDITION WHEN MOTOR VEHICLE LEFT UNATTENDED.
   (A)   (1)   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit
it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition,
removing the key from the ignition, effectively setting the parking brake, and,
when the motor vehicle is standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to
the curb or side of the highway.
      (2)   The requirements of this section relating to the stopping of the
engine, locking of the ignition, and removing the key from the ignition of a
motor vehicle do not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   A motor vehicle that is parked on residential property;
         (b)   A motor vehicle that is locked, regardless of where it is
parked;
         (c)   An emergency vehicle;
         (d)   A public safety vehicle.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one year of the offense,
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of the
offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more predicate
motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.661)
§ 76.03 POLICE MAY REMOVE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of R.C. § 4511.66 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
such officer may move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved
or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway, bridge, or causeway, or in any tunnel, where such vehicles constitutes
an obstruction to traffic, such officer may provide for the removal of such
vehicle to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(R.C. § 4511.67)
§ 76.04 PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or to comply with the provisions of this
title, or while obeying the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk, except as provided in division (B) of this section;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet of, and upon the approach to, any flashing beacon,
stop sign, or traffic-control device;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by a traffic-control device;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of a driveway entrance to any fire station and, on
the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75
feet of the entrance when it is properly posted with signs;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   Alongside any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway, or within a
highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   Within one foot of another parked vehicle;
      (16)   On the roadway portion of a freeway, expressway, or thruway.
   (B)   A person is permitted, without charge or restriction, to stand or park
on a sidewalk a motor-driven cycle or motor scooter that has an engine not
larger than 150 cubic centimeters, a low- speed micromobility device, or a
bicycle or electric bicycle, provided that the motor-driven cycle, motor
scooter, low-speed micromobility device, bicycle, or electric bicycle does not
impede the normal flow of pedestrian traffic. This division does not authorize
any person to operate a vehicle in violation of R.C. § 4511.711, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If, within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one predicate motor vehicle or traffic offense, whoever violates this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If, within one year of
the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of two or more
predicate motor vehicle or traffic offenses, whoever violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 4511.68)
§ 76.05 PARKING NEAR CURB; PRIVILEGES FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
   (A)   Every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there is an
adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-hand wheels of the
vehicle parallel with and not more than 12 inches from the right-hand curb,
unless it is impossible to approach so close to the curb; in such case the stop
shall be made as close to the curb as possible and only for the time necessary
to discharge and receive passengers or to load or unload merchandise. Local
authorities by ordinance may permit angle parking on any roadway under their
jurisdiction, except that angle parking shall not be permitted on a state route
within the municipality unless an unoccupied roadway width of not less than 25
feet is available for free- moving traffic.
   (B)   Local authorities by ordinance may permit parking of vehicles with the
left-hand wheels adjacent to and within 12 inches of the left-hand curb of a
one-way roadway.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(1)(b) of this section,
no vehicle shall be stopped or parked on a road or highway with the vehicle
facing in a direction other than the direction of travel on that side of the
road or highway.
         (b)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into an
angled parking space so that when the motorcycle is parked it is facing in a
direction other than the direction of travel on the side of the road or
highway.
      (2)   The operator of a motorcycle may back the motorcycle into a parking
space that is located on the side of, and parallel to, a road or highway. The
motorcycle may face any direction when so parked. Not more than two motorcycles
at a time shall be parked in a parking space as described in division (C)(2) of
this section irrespective of whether or not the space is metered.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any statute or any rule, regulation, resolution, or
ordinance, air compressors, tractors, trucks, and other equipment, while being
used in the construction, reconstruction, installation, repair, or removal of
facilities near, on, over, or under a street or highway, may stop, stand, or
park where necessary in order to perform such work, provided a flagperson is on
duty or warning signs or lights are displayed as may be prescribed by the
Director of Transportation.
   (E)   Accessible parking locations and privileges for persons with
disabilities that limit or impair the ability to walk shall be provided and
designated by all political subdivisions and by the state and all agencies and
instrumentalities thereof at all offices and facilities where parking is
provided, whether owned, rented or leased, and at all publicly owned parking
garages. The locations shall be designated through the posting of an elevated
sign, whether permanently affixed or movable, imprinted with the international
symbol of access and shall be reasonably close to exits, entrances, elevators
and ramps. All elevated signs posted in accordance with this division and R.C.
§ 3781.111(C) shall be mounted on a fixed or movable post, and the distance
from the ground to the bottom edge of the sign shall measure not less than five
feet. If a new sign or a replacement sign designating an accessible parking
location is posted on or after October 14, 1999, there also shall be affixed
upon the surface of that sign or affixed next to the designating sign a notice
that states the fine applicable for the offense of parking a motor vehicle in
the designated accessible parking location if the motor vehicle is not legally
entitled to be parked in that location.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle at
accessible parking locations provided under division (E) of this section, or at
accessible clearly marked parking locations provided in or on privately owned
parking lots, parking garages or other parking areas and designated in
accordance with that division, unless one of the following applies:
            1.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a valid removable windshield placard or accessible license plates;
or
            2.   The motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of
a person with a disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible
license plates.
         (b)   Any motor vehicle that is parked in an accessible marked parking
location in violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section
may be towed or otherwise removed from the parking location by the law
enforcement agency of the municipality. A motor vehicle that is so towed or
removed shall not be released to its owner until the owner presents proof of
ownership of the motor vehicle and pays all towing and storage fees normally
imposed by the municipality for towing and storing motor vehicles. If the motor
vehicle is a leased vehicle, it shall not be released to the lessee until the
lessee presents proof that that person is the lessee of the motor vehicle and
pays all towing and storage fees normally imposed by the municipality for
towing and storing motor vehicles.
         (c)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section, it is an affirmative defense to the charge that
the person suffered an injury not more than 72 hours prior to the time the
person was issued the ticket or citation and that, because of the injury, the
person meets at least one of the criteria contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle in an area
that is commonly known as an access aisle, which area is marked by diagonal
stripes and is located immediately adjacent to an accessible parking location
provided under division (E) of this section or at an accessible clearly marked
parking location provided in or on a privately owned parking lot, parking
garage or other parking area and designated in accordance with that division.
   (G)   When a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a
person with a disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk and is
displaying a removable windshield placard or accessible license plates, or when
a motor vehicle is being operated by or for the transport of a person with a
disability and is displaying a parking card or accessible license plates, the
motor vehicle is permitted to park for a period of two hours in excess of the
legal parking period permitted by local authorities, except where local
ordinances or police rules provide otherwise or where the vehicle is parked in
such a manner as to be clearly a traffic hazard.
   (H)   No owner of an office, facility or parking garage where accessible
parking locations are required to be designated in accordance with division (E)
of this section shall fail to properly mark the accessible parking locations in
accordance with that division or fail to maintain the markings of the
accessible locations, including the erection and maintenance of the fixed or
movable signs.
   (I)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to require a person or
organization to apply for a removable windshield placard or accessible license
plates if the parking card or accessible license plates issued to the person or
organization under prior law have not expired or been surrendered or revoked.
   (J)    As used in this section:
      ACCESSIBLE LICENSE PLATES and REMOVABLE WINDSHIELD PLACARD. Any license
plates, standard removable windshield placard, permanent removable windshield
placard, or temporary removable windshield placard issued under R.C. § 4503.41
or 4503.44, and also any substantially similar license plates or removable
windshield placard issued by a state, district, country, or sovereignty.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY. Any person who has lost the use of one or both
legs or one or both arms, who is blind, deaf or unable to move without the aid
of crutches or a wheelchair, or whose mobility is restricted by a permanent
cardiovascular, pulmonary or other disabling condition.
      PERSON WITH A DISABILITY THAT LIMITS OR IMPAIRS THE ABILITY TO WALK. Has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 4503.44.
   (K)   Penalty.
      (1)   Whoever violates division (A) or (C) of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in
division (K)(2)(a) and (K)(2)(b) of this section. Except as otherwise provided
in division (K)(2)(a) of this section, an offender who violates division (F)(1)
(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section shall be fined not less than $250 nor more
than $500. An offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1. or (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section shall be fined not more than $100 if the offender, prior to sentencing,
proves either of the following to the satisfaction of the court:
            1.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)1. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a removable windshield placard that then was
valid or accessible license plates that then were valid but the offender or the
person neglected to display the placard or license plates as described in
division (F)(1)(a)1. of this section.
            2.   At the time of the violation of division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section, the offender or the person for whose transport the motor vehicle was
being operated had been issued a parking card that then was valid or accessible
license plates that then were valid but the offender or the person neglected to
display the card or license plates as described in division (F)(1)(a)2. of this
section.
         (b)   In no case shall an offender who violates division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. be sentenced to any term of imprisonment.
         (c)   An arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(1)(a)1.
or (F)(1)(a)2. of this section does not constitute a criminal record and need
not be reported by the person so arrested or convicted in response to any
inquiries contained in any application for employment, license, or other right
or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s appearance as a witness.
         (d)   The clerk of the court shall pay every fine collected under
divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to the municipality. Except as
provided in division (K)(2) of this section, the municipality shall use the
fine moneys it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of this section to
pay the expenses it incurs in complying with the signage and notice
requirements contained in division (E) of this section. The municipality may
use up to 50% of each fine it receives under divisions (K)(2) and (K)(3) of
this section to pay the costs of educational, advocacy, support, and assistive
technology programs for persons with disabilities, and for public improvements
within the municipality that benefit or assist persons with disabilities, if
governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations offer the programs.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (F)(2) of this section shall be fined not
less than $250 nor more than $500. In no case shall an offender who violates
division (F)(2) of this section be sentenced to any term of imprisonment. An
arrest or conviction for a violation of division (F)(2) of this section does
not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries contained in any application
for employment, license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection
with the person’s appearance as a witness.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (H) of this section shall be punished as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (K)(4) of this section,
the offender shall be issued a warning.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (H) of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to that division, the offender shall
not be issued a warning but shall be fined not more than $25 for each parking
location that is not properly marked or whose markings are not properly
maintained.
(R.C. § 4511.69)
Cross-reference:
   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates, see §
138.17
Statutory reference:
   Buildings, access for disabled persons, see R.C. § 3781.111
§ 76.06 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF POSTED PROHIBITION.
   (A)   If an owner of private property posts on the property in a conspicuous
manner a prohibition against parking on the property or conditions and
regulations under which parking is permitted, no person shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   Park a vehicle on the property without the owner’s consent;
      (2)   Park a vehicle on the property in violation of any condition or
regulation posted by the owner.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 4511.681)
§ 76.07 SELLING, WASHING OR REPAIRING VEHICLE UPON ROADWAY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the
principal purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.08 TRUCK LOADING ZONES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time, other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and
loading of materials, in any place marked as a truck loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.09 BUS STOPS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a
bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or
stand has been officially designated and appropriately posted, except that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of,
and while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone, and then only for a period not to exceed three minutes, if
such stopping is not prohibited therein by posted signs.
   (B)   No operator of a bus shall stop, stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers or their baggage other than at a bus stop so designated and posted
as such, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   No operator of a bus shall fail to enter a bus stop on a street or
other public way in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage is in a position with the right front wheel of such
vehicle not further than 18 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
   (D)   No operator of a taxicab shall stand or park such vehicle upon any
street or other public way at any place other than in a taxicab stand so
designated and posted as such. This provision shall not prevent the operator of
a taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking provisions at any place for the purpose of, and while actually engaged
in, the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.10 PARKING IN ALLEYS AND NARROW STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street, other
than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available
less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic, except that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when directed to by a police officer or traffic
control signal.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley except while actually loading and unloading, and
then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 76.11 REGISTERED OWNER PRIMA FACIE LIABLE FOR UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   In any hearing on a charge of illegally parking a motor vehicle, testimony
that a vehicle bearing a certain license plate was found unlawfully parked as
prohibited by the provisions of this Traffic Code, and further testimony that
the record of the Ohio Registrar of Motor Vehicles shows that the license plate
was issued to the defendant, shall be prima facie evidence that the vehicle
which was unlawfully parked, was so parked by the defendant. A certified
registration copy, showing such fact, from the Registrar shall be proof of such
ownership.
§ 76.12 WAIVER.
   Any person charged with a violation of any provision of this chapter for
which payment of a prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require court appearance.
§ 76.13 COMMERCIAL TRUCK PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Not more than one commercial truck may be parked on the premises of
any dwelling unit in any R Zoning District; provided that the gross vehicle
weight of said commercial truck shall not exceed 22,000 pounds; and further
provided that the ownership and use of this commercial truck is necessarily
related to the occupation of the resident of such dwelling unit.
   (B)   No commercial truck or other truck with a gross vehicle weight in
excess of 22,000 pounds, no commercial tractor and no semitrailer shall be
permitted to park on the premises of any dwelling unit in any R Zoning
District, nor shall any of the above be permitted to park on any street, alley
or public right-of-way in any R Zoning District, nor shall any of the above be
permitted to park on any public property or other public right-of-way within
the village.
   (C)   Commercial tractor, semitrailer and truck shall be defined as set
forth at §
70.01.
   (D)   Any person who violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor,
and shall be fined a sum not to exceed $100 for each such violation.
(Ord. O-12-05, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 76.14 COMMERCIAL VEHICLE PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, a commercial vehicle includes any
bus, school bus, commercial tractor, commercial trailer, agricultural tractor,
semitrailer, pole trailer or any truck or van with greater than 10,000 pounds
payload capacity.
   (B)   Other than for the purpose of deliveries, moving in or out of a
residential premise, or on-going work by contractors and repairpersons at or
immediately adjacent to the site where the work performed by them is being
performed, a commercial vehicle shall not be parked on any street, municipal
right-of-way or private property within a residential zoning district in the
village.
   (C)   Violation of this section is a minor misdemeanor. Subsequent
violations of this section are fourth degree misdemeanors. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. O-04-2022, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 76.15 BOAT AND TRAILER PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No boat, or other water craft, either by itself or when situated on a
trailer for towing purposes, which boat, water craft or trailer is incapable of
motor-driven propulsion, shall be permitted to park on any street, alley or
other public property or public right-of-way within the village.
   (B)   No boat trailer, utility trailer, travel trailer, camping trailer or
other trailer incapable of being self-propelled and designed to be towed or
pulled behind a motor vehicle, shall be permitted to park on any street, alley
or other public property or public right-of-way within the village.
   (C)   Unless otherwise authorized by Village Council, any such boat, or
other water craft, boat trailer, utility trailer, travel trailer, camping
trailer or other trailer incapable of being self-propelled and designed to be
towed or pulled behind a motor vehicle shall only be permitted to be parked in
the rear yard of any residence in any residential district as defined by the
Zoning Code; provided that such rear yard parking shall not violate any side
yard setback limitations established for said residential zoning district by
the Zoning Code.
   (D)   Upon prior written authorization by the Police Department, a boat,
water craft, travel trailer, utility trailer, camper trailer or other similar
trailer which is incapable of self-propulsion, and which is designed to be
towed or pulled behind a motor vehicle, may be parked or stored in a
residential district in violation of the conditions established above for a
period of time not to exceed 48 hours; provided that the same is attached to a
motor vehicle capable of propelling the same at all times during that 48-hour
period.
   (E)   Any person who violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor,
and shall be fined a sum not to exceed $100 for each such violation.
(Ord. O-12-05, passed 6-21-2005)
§ 76.16 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, BOAT AND TRAILER PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Unless otherwise authorized by Village Council in accordance with this
section, no recreational vehicle or other vehicle, and no boat trailer, utility
trailer, travel trailer, camping trailer or trailer incapable of being self-
propelled and designed to be towed or pulled behind a motor vehicle, shall be
prohibited in any residential district for 48 hours or a longer period of time
except that such vehicles, trailers and boats may be stored in an enclosed
garage or other accessory building or parked in the rear yard of a residential
property, provided:
      (1)   That in all cases, no living quarters shall be maintained or any
business conducted in the recreational vehicle, trailer or boat while it is
stored or parked;
      (2)   The recreational vehicle, trailer or boat is intended and used for
the sole use and enjoyment of the resident occupants of the property on which
it is stored or parked; and
      (3)   The recreational vehicle, trailer or boat shall not be parked
closer than five feet from the side or rear lot lines of the property on which
it is stored or parked.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Village Council, parking of such
recreational vehicle(s), boat trailer, utility trailer, travel trailer, camping
trailer or any other trailer incapable of being self-propelled and designed to
be towed or pulled behind a motor vehicle, may be permitted in a location in a
residential district other than the rear yard; provided that the rear yard is
insufficient or incapable of having such vehicle(s) or trailer(s) parked
therein, and all of the adjacent neighbors consent to the parking of said
vehicle(s), trailer(s) and boat(s) in a location designated for the same, by
Council.
(Ord. O-35-2019, passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.17 MOTOR VEHICLES PARKED AT RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
   No more than two motor vehicles per residential unit shall be permitted to
be parked off-street at any residential property located in the village,
subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   Off-street parking is defined as parking a motor vehicle in a
driveway, other designated parking areas on the premises or any other location
on the residential property outside of a fully enclosed and contained garage or
similar accessory building, and shall not be located within the front yard
setback required by the provisions of the Zoning Code for such residential
unit.
   (B)   In no case shall any part of a parking area be located closer than
five feet to any street or alley right-of-way.
   (C)   Any off-street parking area shall be grated for proper drainage and
drained so as to dispose of all surface water accumulated within the area, and
surfaced so as to provide a durable and dustless surface.
   (D)   Motor vehicles parked in a contained garage or similar accessory
building shall not count against the two motor vehicle limit for off-street
parking.
   (E)   The off-street parking of any unlicensed and/or disabled motor vehicle
within any zoning district in the village for a period of more than two weeks
shall be prohibited, except that such vehicle may be stored in an enclosed
garage or other enclosed accessory building.
   (F)   MOTOR VEHICLE means any vehicle, including mobile homes and
recreational vehicles, that is propelled or drawn by power other than muscular
power or power collected from overhead electric trolley wires. MOTOR VEHICLE
does not include vehicles as defined in R.C. § 4501.01(VV), (WW), (XX) and
(BBB), motorized bicycles, electric bicycles, road rollers, traction engines,
power shovels, power cranes and other equipment used in construction work and
not designated for or employed in general highway transportation, well-drilling
machinery, ditch-digging machinery, farm machinery and trailers that are
designed and used exclusively to transport a boat between a place of storage
and a marina, or in and around a marina, when drawn or towed on a public road
or highway for a distance of no more than ten miles and at a speed of 25 mph or
less.
   (G)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor on a
first offense and shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $150. If within one
year of the offense, the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more violations of this section, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree and subject to a fine not to exceed $250 and a
jail sentence no greater than 30 calendar days.
(Ord. O-42-2020, passed - -2020) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.18 PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN VILLAGE PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   The village parking lot adjacent to the Strasburg Municipal Building
on Fifth Street, SW, in the village, shall be for village and library business
use only.
   (B)   Anyone using the village parking lot adjacent to the Strasburg
Municipal Building on Fifth Street, SW for purposes other than business related
to the village and the public library located in the municipal building, shall
be determined to be in violation of this section, for which the penalty is
hereby declared to be a minor misdemeanor.
(Ord. O-07-2014, passed 5-6-2014) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.19 PARKING DURING HEAVY SNOWFALL.
   (A)   In order to facilitate the cleaning of all streets and expedite the
free flow of traffic, motor vehicles shall not be parked on village streets, at
such times as the United States Weather Bureau records indicate that two inches
of snow has fallen and there is a prospect of further snowfall. All cars parked
prior to the time weather conditions prohibit parking must be removed by the
owner or operators. Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this prohibition
shall be removed at the order of the Chief of Police and/or the Mayor, and
shall subject the owner or operator to the fines provided herein.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the owners or operators of motor vehicles
to ascertain weather conditions requiring the removal of their motor vehicles
from the streets within the village, and to remove all cars parked in violation
of this section.
   (C)   When the United States Weather Bureau records indicate that two inches
of snow has fallen and there is a prospect of further snowfall, the Chief of
Police and/or the Mayor, shall order the removal of all vehicles parked on the
streets of the village which have not been removed by the owners or operators.
Such vehicles shall be removed to a motor vehicle impound as designated, and
records shall be kept by the Police Department of all vehicles removed.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is subject to the penalties provided by
law for illegal parking on normally regulated streets. In addition, where a car
is towed to a motor vehicle impound, the car can be recovered only upon the
payment of the towing charges.
   (E)   The Police Department shall use all available means to disseminate
information as to the existence of weather conditions requiring removal of
parked motor vehicles from the areas designated, including radio, television,
newspapers and other available media to the extent feasible. The dissemination
of this information does not relieve owners or operators of motor vehicles from
the responsibility of ascertaining the existence of weather conditions
requiring the removal of parked motor vehicles from the areas designated.
   (F)   The streets where parking is prohibited after two inches of snow has
fallen and there is a prospect of further snowfall include all of the streets
within the village.
(Ord. O-3-95, passed - -1995) Penalty, see §
76.99
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty
otherwise is provided in the section that contains the provision violated shall
be fined as set forth in §
70.99.
   (B)   Any person charged with parking in violation of §
76.04 or
Chapter 78, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided therein, may pay a
fine of $10 for each offense by appearing at the police station within 72 hours
of the time appearing on the parking citation issued. After the 72-hour period
expires, and the $10 parking fine has not been paid, then the parking citation
will be voided and reissued for appearance by the violator in the New
Philadelphia Municipal Court.
   (C)   A person charged with the violation of the above provisions for which
payment of this prescribed fine may be made, may pay such sum in the manner
prescribed on the issued traffic ticket. Such payment shall be deemed a plea of
guilty, waiver of court appearance and acknowledgment of conviction of the
alleged offense and may be accepted in full satisfaction of the prescribed
penalty for such alleged violation. Payment of the prescribed fine need not be
accepted when laws prescribe that a certain number of such offenses shall
require a court appearance.
(Ord. O-19-2007, passed 11-20-2007)
CHAPTER 77: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Three-way stops
      
II.   Four-way stops
SCHEDULE I. THREE-WAY STOPS.
 
Intersection                        Ord. No. Date Passed
Weber Avenue and Fourteenth Streets O-31-93  - -1993
 
SCHEDULE II. FOUR-WAY STOPS.
 
Intersection                         Ord. No.  Date Passed
Twelfth Street NW and Dale Avenue NW O-20-2003 11-4-2003
 
CHAPTER 78: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   On one side of streets in village.
      (1)   Parking is prohibited on one side of all streets in the village
which run in an east-west direction as follows:
         (a)   There shall be no parking on the north side of all such east-
west streets which lie on the east side of Wooster Avenue;
         (b)   There shall be no parking on the south side of all such east-
west streets which lie on the west side of Wooster Avenue; and
         (c)   There shall be no parking on the north side of East First Street
in the village for a length of 81 feet from the intersection of East First
Street and Wooster Avenue. There shall be no parking on the south side of East
First Street for a length of 30 feet from the intersection of East First Street
and Wooster Avenue, and for a length of 30 feet west from the intersection of
First Street and Stoutt Drive, SE in the village. Between these two no parking
zones on the south side of East First Street, parking shall be two-hour parking
only.
      (2)   Except as set forth above, the provisions of this division (A) do
not apply to First Street East or First Street West in the village.
      (3)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Parking on Wooster Avenue. 
      (1)   No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle of any kind
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control device on Wooster
Avenue, within the corporate limits of the village, other than in a off-street
parking spot clearly designated as such between First Street and Second Street
NW/NE.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a minor
misdemeanor as set forth in §
70.99.
   (C)   Parking on Zeltman Avenue. No person shall stop, stand or park a motor
vehicle of any kind, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic
or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or a traffic-control
device, on Zeltman Avenue in the village, beginning at its intersection with
North Wooster Avenue and extending north and east therefrom to the corporation
line.
(Ord. O-15-01, passed 8-7-2001; Ord. O-20-2005, passed 10-18-2005; Ord. O-24-
2016, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. O-36-2022, passed 9-6-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Regulating dogs in village park
   
90.02   Regulating dogs and other animals; nuisance conditions prohibited
   
90.03   Keeping of certain animals prohibited
   
90.04   Nuisance conditions and feeding wildlife and stray animals prohibited
   
90.05   Management of feral cats; permitted acts
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 REGULATING DOGS IN VILLAGE PARK.
   (A)   No person, who is the owner or has charge of any dog or other animal,
shall permit said dog or other animal to be brought into and remain on property
comprising Strasburg-Franklin Park, unless kept on a leash or otherwise
restrained.
   (B)   As used in division (A) of this section, OTHERWISE RESTRAINED means
keeping said dog or other animal physically restricted by a leash, tether or
other secure enclosure, or otherwise physically confined so as to prevent the
escape and running loose of said dog or other animal.
   (C)   No person, who is the owner or has charge of any dog or other animal,
shall permit said animal to defecate in Strasburg-Franklin Park, unless said
person immediately removes such defecation, and disposes of the same in a
proper manner.
   (D)   Any person, who is the owner or has charge of any dog or other animal,
who permits said dog or other animal to run at large in Strasburg-Franklin
Park, in violation of division (A) of this section, is liable for all damages
or injuries caused by such dog or other animal upon the premises of Strasburg-
Franklin Park.
   (E)   The prohibition contained in divisions (A) and (C) of this section
shall not apply when a blind, deaf or mobility impaired person is accompanied
by a dog or other animal that serves as or is in training to become a guide or
leader, listener or support dog for him or her, and he or she can show proof by
certificate or other means that the dog or other animal leading him or her,
listening for him or her, or providing support or assistance for him or her has
been or is being trained for that purpose by a non-profit special agency
engaged in such work. The prohibitions contained in divisions (A) and (C) of
this section shall also not apply to police dogs or other animals specially
trained and utilized for law enforcement purposes while said dog or other
animal is being used for law enforcement purposes.
(Ord. O-19-97, passed 8- -1997) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 REGULATING DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS; NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance for the owner or any person in
charge of or control of any dog or animal within the village, to permit said
animal to defecate on any school grounds, village property, other public
property or upon the private property other than that of the owner or person in
charge of or in control of such dog or other animal without the permission of
the owner of said property.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or in charge of or control of any dog or
other animal, shall permit said dog or other animal to defecate on any school
ground, village property, other public property or upon any private property
other than that of the owner or person in charge of or in control of such dog
or animal without the permission of the owner of said property.
   (C)   In the case of such defecation, if the owner or person in charge of or
in control of such dog or other animal removes all feces deposited by such dog
or other animal and disposes of the same in a sanitary manner, such nuisance
created by division (A) shall be considered abated. Failure of the owner or
person in charge of or control of such dog or other animal to abate this
nuisance shall subject that person to the penalty established for violation of
this section.
(Ord. O-07-2003, passed 4-15-2003) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly keep, maintain or have in his or her
possession or under his or her control within the village any dangerous or
carnivorous wild animal or reptile, any vicious or dangerous domesticated
animal, any non-native wildlife as defined at R.C. § 1531.01(vv) or any other
animal or reptile of wild, vicious or dangerous propensities, except to the
extent that an exemption may be applicable pursuant to divisions (C) or (D) of
this section.
      (1)   As used in this section, DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS ANIMAL means and
includes the following:
         (a)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings or domestic animals;
         (b)   Any animal which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation; or
         (c)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the
purpose of fighting or any animal trained for fighting.
      (2)   As used in this section, NON-NATIVE WILDLIFE means any wild animal
not indigenous to this state and not legally confined or held by private
ownership legally acquired.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, there shall be an irrebuttable
presumption that, when kept or maintained within the village, the animals
listed below are considered dangerous animals to which the prohibition of
division (A) of this section, in the absence of an exemption pursuant to
divisions (C) or (D) of this section, applies. The animals listed below may, in
the discretion of the Police Department, be seized or ordered seized at the
time of the citation or any other time prior to trial:
      (1)   All crotalid, elapid and venomous colubroid snakes;
      (2)   Apes: chimpanzees (Pan); gibbons (Hylobates); gorillas (Gorilla);
orangutans (Pongo) and siamangs (Symphalangus);
      (3)   Baboons (Papoi, Mandrillus);
      (4)   Bears (Ursidae);
      (5)   Birds of prey;
      (6)   Bison (Bison);
      (7)   Cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus);
      (8)   Crocodilians (Crocodilia);
      (9)    Constrictor snakes or any poisonous specie of reptile;
      (10)   Coyotes (Canis latrans);
      (11)   Deer (Cervidae), includes all members of the deer family, for
example, white-tailed deer, elk, antelope and moose;
      (12)   Elephants (Elephas and Loxodonata);
      (13)   Foxes (Canis Vulpes);
      (14)   Game cocks and other fighting birds;
      (15)   Hippopotami (Hippopotamidae);
      (16)   Hyenas (Hyaenidae);
      (17)   Jaguars (Panthers onca);
      (18)   Leopards (Panthera pardus);
      (19)   Lions (Panthera les);
      (20)   Lynxes (Lynx);
      (21)   Monkeys, old world (Cercopithedidae);
      (22)   Ostriches (Struthio);
      (23)   Piranha fish (Characidae);
      (24)   Poisonous spiders;
      (25)   Pumas (Felis concolor), also known as cougars, mountain lions and
panthers;
      (26)   Raccoons;
      (27)   Rhinoceroses (Rhinocero tidae);
      (28)   Scorpions;
      (29)   Sharks (class Chondrichtyhes);
      (30)   Skunks;
      (31)   Snow leopards (Panthera uncia);
      (32)   Stinging insects (except honey bees);
      (33)   Swine (Suidae);      
      (34)   Tigers (Panthera tigris);
      (35)   Venomous fish;
      (36)   Wolves (Canis lupus);
      (37)   Scorpions;
      (38)   Giraffes;
      (39)   Camels; and
      (40)   Llama.
   (C)   Licensed menageries, zoological gardens and circuses shall be exempt
from the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section, if all of the
following conditions are applicable:
      (1)   The location conforms to the provisions of the Planning Code and
Zoning Code;
      (2)   All animals and animal quarters are kept in a clean and sanitary
condition and so maintained as to eliminate objectionable odors;
      (3)   Animals are maintained in quarters to constructed as to prevent
their escape; and
      (4)   No person resides within 50 feet of the quarters in which the
animals are kept.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the Police Chief may grant a
specific exemption, on a temporary or permanent basis, from any of the
provisions of this section to any person with a legitimate scientific,
educational, commercial or other purpose for maintaining the prohibited
animals, in accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Written application for exemption shall be filed by any person
desiring to obtain an exemption with the Police Chief. The application shall
state the applicant’s name, address, type and number of animals desired to be
kept, general purpose for which the animals will be kept and a general
description of provisions which will be made for safe, sanitary and secure
maintenance of the animals.
      (2)   The Police Chief may grant, deny or restrict the terms of an
application for exemption; provided, however that he or she shall take some
official action on an application within 120 days of its filing.
      (3)   In considering the merits of an application for exemption, the
Police Chief may cause one or more inspections of the applicant’s premises to
be made by appropriate employees or representatives of the village and may also
refer the application to persons who are technically knowledgeable with respect
to the animals for an advisory opinion.
      (4)   In evaluating an application for exemption, the Police Chief shall
give consideration to the following criteria:
         (a)   The experience and knowledge of the applicant relative to the
animals involved;
         (b)   Whether the applicant has obtained a federal or state permit
relative to the animals involved;
         (c)   The relative danger, safety and health risks to the general
public, to persons residing or passing near the applicant’s premises and to the
application connection with the animals involved;
         (d)   The provisions which have been or will be made for the safe,
sanitary and secure maintenance of the animals for the protection of the
general public, persons residing or passing near the applicant’s premises and
the applicant;
         (e)   The provisions which have been made or will be made to protect
the safety and health of the animals involved; and
         (f)   Any other logically relevant information.
      (5)   An application for exemption under this division (D) shall be
denied unless the Police Chief determines that, in view of all the relevant
criteria and any restrictions which he or she may provide, reasonably
appropriate measures commensurate with the degree of risk associated with the
animals involved have been or will be taken to assure at least a minimum
acceptable level of protection from danger to the health and safety of the
general public, persons residing or passing near the applicant’s premises and
the applicant.
      (6)   An exemption granted pursuant to this division (D) may be withdrawn
by action of the Police Chief in the event that the Police Chief determines
that there has been a change in the conditions or assumptions under which it
was originally granted or in the event that the applicant fails to comply with
restrictions originally placed on the exemption.
   (E)   No exemption granted pursuant to any division of this section shall be
construed, nor is it intended by the village as a guaranty or warranty of any
kind, whether express or implied, to any person, including without limitation
the general public, persons residing or passing near the applicant’s premises,
or the applicant, either in general or individually, as to the danger, or lack
thereof, or degree of risk to health or safety of any animal, specifically or
generally, or any premises where any animal is maintained or kept pursuant to
such exemption.
(Ord. O-17-2008, passed 10-7-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 NUISANCE CONDITIONS AND FEEDING WILDLIFE AND STRAY ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep or harbor any animal or fowl so as to create
offensive odors or unsanitary conditions or otherwise create a menace to the
health, comfort, or safety of the public.
   (B)   No person shall provide for feral cats, deer, geese, ducks, raccoons,
fowl or other wildlife by setting such food out on any public property or
within 100 feet of any private residence. This section shall not apply to
animals owned by the person, to squirrels or rabbits, or to stationary bird-
feeders.
   (C)   Any cat that is wild, strayed, or unowned shall be considered feral.
Feral cats shall not be considered pets.
   (D)   Feral cats that are trapped, neutered, and returned under §
90.05 shall be an exception to this section, and whether such a feral cat
qualifies under §
90.05 shall be an affirmative defense to be proved by a defendant in a criminal
action brought under this section.
   (E)   Persons providing for feral cats that have been trapped, neutered, and
returned under §
90.05, in order to qualify for protection of that section, shall be responsible
for damage done by such cats on the property of other persons or to clean up
after such cats as required on the property of other persons.
(Ord. O-5-2024, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 90.05 MANAGEMENT OF FERAL CATS; PERMITTED ACTS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      COMMUNITY CAT. A cat that is abandoned, stray, lost, or feral and that
may be cared for by a community cat caregiver, specifically Tuscarawas County
TNR Project, Inc. ("TNR Project"), or an organization deemed by the Mayor or
Police Chief to be substantially equivalent to TNR Project.
      COMMUNITY CAT CAREGIVER. A person qualified under the definition for
community cat above that provides care, including food, shelter, or medical
care to a community cat, while not being considered the owner, harborer,
controller, or keeper of the community cat.
      EARTIPPING. The removal of the one-fourth inch tip of a community cat's
left ear, performed while the cat is under anesthesia, in compliance with any
applicable federal or state law, and under the supervision of a licensed
veterinarian, designed to identify the community cat as being sterilized and
lawfully vaccinated for rabies.
      TRAP-NEUTER-RETURN (TNR). The process of humanely trapping, sterilizing,
vaccinating for rabies, eartipping, and returning community cats to their
original locations.
   (B)   The following actions shall be permitted in the village, specifically
allowing TNR Project or an organization deemed substantially similar under the
definition of community cat in division (A) above, to pursue TNR:
      (1)   Trapping for the sole purpose of sterilizing, vaccinating for
rabies, and eartipping community cats, in compliance with any applicable
federal or state law, and under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian,
where applicable.
      (2)   An eartipped cat received by local shelters may be returned to the
location where trapped unless veterinary care is required. A trapped eartipped
cat will be released on site unless veterinary care is required.
      (3)   Community cat caregivers are empowered to reclaim impounded
community cats without proof of ownership for the purpose of implementation of
the TNR process as more particularly provided in this section.
      (4)   TNR Project or other organizations deemed substantially similar
under the definition of community cat in division (A) above shall provide to
the Village Police Chief and Fiscal Officer a list of representatives
(trappers, caregivers) who are approved by TNR Project or such other
organization. This list must be promptly updated whenever any change is made to
the current submitted list.
      (5)   Every representative of TNR Project or another organization
performing a similar function must have written permission from a landowner on
their person when trapping from or returning community cats to the landowner's
property.
      (6)   Every representative of TNR Project or another organization
performing a similar function shall, after return and release of a feral cat,
provide the Fiscal Officer with an up to date list of such returned cats and
the locations to which they have been returned.
(Ord. O-5-2024, passed 2-20-2024)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates the prohibitions contained in §
90.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree and shall be punished
appropriately.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
90.02 shall be deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor and shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $100.
   (C)    Whoever violates any of the provisions of §
90.03 section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree for the first
offense with an enhancement to a misdemeanor of the third degree for any
subsequent offenses. A separate offense should be as deemed committed for each
day during or where a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   Whoever violates the prohibitions of §
90.04, or fails to substantially comply with the requirements of §
90.05, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor on the first offense and a fourth
degree misdemeanor on the second and all subsequent offenses, and shall be
punished appropriately.
(Ord. O-19-97, passed 8- -1997; Ord. O-07-2003, passed 4-15-2003; Ord. O-17-
2008, passed 10-7-2008; Ord. O-5-2024, passed 2-20-2024)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Ohio Fire Code
   
91.02   Use and possession of fireworks
Outdoor Wood Furnaces
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Regulations for outdoor wood furnaces
   
91.17   Substantive requirements
   
91.18   Appeals/variances
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 OHIO FIRE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of Ohio Fire Code. The Ohio Fire Code, Inc., as adopted by
the Ohio Division of State Fire Marshal, Department of Commerce, O.A.C. Chapter
1301:7-7 is herein incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Purpose of Ohio Fire Code. The purpose of the Ohio Fire Code as
adopted herein is to prescribe minimum standards and regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion.
   (C)   Application of Ohio Fire Code. The Ohio Fire Code as adopted herein
applies to the use of all lands and properties within the village and such
other lands or properties owned by the village which are situated outside the
corporate limits thereof.
   (D)   Enforcement of Ohio Fire Code.
      (1)   No person shall serve as Fire Safety Inspector unless that person
has received a certificate issued under R.C. § 4765.55 evidencing that person’s
satisfactory completion of a fire safety inspection training program.
      (2)   For village criminal proceedings, the complaint, warrant or
summons, or the issuance of a citation in minor misdemeanor cases shall, as
prescribed in the Ohio Rules of Criminal Procedure, reference the numerical
designation of the applicable village ordinance, including the specific
provision of the Ohio Fire Code, or any order issued pursuant thereto, that is
violated; provided that if the change is violation of an order, such order
fixes a reasonable time for abatement of the violation.
      (3)   A copy of such complaint or citation shall be prominently posted at
or near each place where a violation referred to occurs.
      (4)   Upon request of the Fire Safety Inspector, the Village Prosecutor
shall institute and prosecute any necessary action or proceeding to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 3737.
   (E)   Compliance with Ohio Fire Code.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly violate any provision of the Ohio Fire
Code as adopted herein or any issued pursuant thereto.
      (2)   No person shall fail to comply with the fire prevention measured or
fire protection activities as prescribed in the Ohio Fire Code, or fail to
obtain a permit or license for the various uses or activities as required by
such Code, or fail to comply with the village application and plan submission
and processing requirements including payment of the fees designated therefor.
(Ord. O-19-2022, passed 6-7-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Minor misdemeanor citation, see R.C. § 2935.26
   Warrant or summons; arrest, see Ohio Crim. R. 4
§ 91.02 USE AND POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms
shall have the meaning set forth below and as they may be defined in the Ohio
Fire Code and in R.C. § 3743.01.
      1.3G FIREWORKS. Display fireworks consistent with regulations of the
United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the designation
“division 1.3” in 49 C.F.R.
      1.4G FIREWORKS. Consumer fireworks, including fountain devices as defined
in R.C. § 3743.01, consistent with regulations of the United States Department
of Transportation as expressed using the designation “division 1.4” in 49
C.F.R.
      FIREWORKS. Any composition or device prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or
detonation, except ordinary matches and except as provided in the Ohio Fire
Code and the state statutes. FIREWORKS does not include hand-held wire
sparklers, toy caps for use in toy pistols, toy canes and novelties, and trick
noisemakers, not containing more than an average of 0.25 grains (16 milligrams)
of explosive composition per cap; provided they are so constructed that the
hand cannot come in contact with the cap when it is in place for explosion.
      NOVELTIES and TRICK NOISEMAKERS. Include the following items: devices
that produce a small report intended to surprise the user, including, but not
limited to, booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers and snappers; snakes or
flow worms; smoke devices; and trick matches.
      PARTY POPPER. A small plastic or paper item that contains not more than
16 milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition, that is ignited by
pulling string protruding from the items and from which paper streamers are
expelled when the item is ignited.
      SMOKE DEVICE. A tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic composition
that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary effect.
      SNAKE or GLOW WORM. A device that consists of a pressed pellet of
pyrotechnic composition that produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.
      SNAPPER. A small, paper-wrapped item that contains a minute quantity of
explosive composition coated on small bits of sand, and that, when dropped,
implodes.
      TRICK MATCH. A kitchen or book match that is coated with a small quantity
of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a small report or a
shower of sparks.
   (B)   No person shall possess fireworks in the village or shall possess for
sale or sell fireworks in the village, except as specifically authorized by
state law.
   (C)   No person shall discharge, ignite or explode any 1.4G fireworks in the
village at any time.
   (D)   No person shall use in a theater or public hall what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate or
sulfur.
   (E)   No person shall sell fireworks, sparklers, novelties or trick
noisemakers of any kind to a person under 18 years of age.
   (F)   No person under 18 years of age shall discharge, ignite or explode
novelties, trick noisemakers or sparklers of any kind unless in the company of
a person of at least 18 years of age.
   (G)   No person, other than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler,
licensed exhibitor or shipping permit holder, shall possess 1.3G fireworks. No
person shall discharge, ignite or explode display fireworks (1.3G) without a
state license and a permit issued by the Fire Department pursuant to § 901.07
of the Ohio Fire Code.
   (H)   No person shall negligently discharge, ignite or explode fireworks
while in possession or control of or under the influence of, any intoxicating
liquor, beer or controlled substance.
(Ord. O-29-2022, passed 6-19-2022) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Chapter 1301:7-7, Ohio Fire Code, O.A.C. Rule 1301:
7-7-80 and O.A.C. Rule 1301:7-7-56
OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIMNEY. Flue or flues that carries off exhaust from an outdoor wood furnace
firebox or burn chamber.
   EPA OWHH PHASE 1 PROGRAM. EPA OWHH (Outdoor Wood-Fired Hydronic Heater
Program) Phase 1 Program administered by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency.
   EPA OWHH PHASE 1 PROGRAM QUALIFIED MODEL. An outdoor wood-fired hydronic
heater that has been EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified. The model has met the
EPA OWHH Phase 1 emission level and has the proper qualifying label and hangtag
   EXISTING OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE. An outdoor wood furnace that was purchased
and installed prior to the effective date of this local law.
   NATURAL WOOD. Wood, which has not been painted, varnished or coated with a
similar material, has not been pressure treated with preservatives and does not
contain resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products.
   NEW OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE. An outdoor wood furnace that is first installed,
established or constructed after the effective date of this local law.
   OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE. Any equipment, device, appliance or apparatus, or any
part thereof, which is installed, affixed or situated outdoors for the primary
purpose of combustion of fuel to produce heat or energy used as a component of
a heating system providing heat for any interior space or water source. An
OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACE may also be referred to an outdoor wood boiler or outdoor
wood-fired hydronic heater.
(Ord. O-03-2013, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 91.16 REGULATIONS FOR OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACES.
   (A)   No person shall, from the effective date of this local law, construct,
install, establish, operate or maintain an outdoor wood furnace other than in
compliance with the applicable sections of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall, from the effective date of this local law, operate an
outdoor wood furnace unless such operation conforms with the manufacturer’s
instructions regarding such operation and the requirements of this chapter
regarding fuels that may be burned in an outdoor wood furnace as set forth in §
91.17(A) and (B) of this subchapter and chimney height as set forth in §
91.17(D) and (F) of this subchapter.
   (C)   All new outdoor wood furnaces shall be constructed, established,
installed, operated and maintained in conformance with the manufacturer’s
instructions and the requirements of this subchapter. In the event of a
conflict, the requirements of this subchapter shall apply unless the
manufacturer’s instructions are stricter, in which case the manufacturer’s
instructions shall apply.
   (D)   The owner of any new outdoor wood furnace shall produce the
manufacturer’s owner’s manual or installation instructions to the Zoning
Inspector to review at any time if requested.
   (E)   All new outdoor wood furnaces shall be laboratory tested and listed to
appropriate safety standards such as UL, CAN/CSA, ANSI or other applicable
safety standards.
   (F)   If an existing outdoor wood furnace is, through the course of a proper
investigation by local authorities, creating a verifiable nuisance, as defined
by local or state law, the following steps may be taken by the owner and the
Zoning Inspector:
      (1)   Modifications made to the unit to eliminate the nuisance as
extending the chimney or relocating the outdoor wood furnace or both; and
      (2)   Cease and desist operating the unit until reasonable steps can be
taken to ensure that the outdoor wood furnace will not be a nuisance.
(Ord. O-03-2013, passed 3-19-2013) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 SUBSTANTIVE REQUIREMENTS.
   Outdoor wood furnaces shall be constructed, established, installed, operated
and maintained pursuant to the following conditions.
   (A)   Fuel burned in any new or existing outdoor wood furnace shall be only
natural untreated wood, wood pellets, corn products, biomass pellets or other
listed fuels specifically permitted by the manufacturer’s instructions such as
fuel oil, natural gas or propane backup.
   (B)   The following fuels are strictly prohibited in new or existing outdoor
wood furnaces:
      (1)   Wood that has been painted, varnished or coated with similar
material and/or has been pressure-treated with preservatives and contains
resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products;
      (2)   Rubbish or garbage, including, but not limited to, food wastes,
food packaging or food wraps;
      (3)   Any plastic materials, including, but not limited to, nylon, PVC,
ABS, polystyrene or urethane foam, and synthetic fabrics, plastic films and
plastic containers;
      (4)   Rubber, including tires or other synthetic rubber-like products;
      (5)   Newspaper, cardboard or any paper with ink or dye products; and
      (6)   Any other items not specifically allowed by the manufacturer or
this provision.
   (C)   Setbacks for any new outdoor wood furnace (models not EPA OWHH Phase 1
Program qualified) shall be as follows:
      (1)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located at least 25 feet from the
property line;
      (2)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located on the property in
compliance with manufacturer’s recommendations and/or testing and listing
requirements for clearance to combustible materials; and
      (3)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located at least 100 feet from
any residence that is not served by the outdoor wood furnace.
   (D)   Chimney heights for new and existing outdoor wood furnaces shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The chimney of any new outdoor wood furnace shall extend at least
two feet above the peak of any residence not served by the outdoor wood furnace
located within 300 feet of such outdoor wood furnace; and
      (2)   If there is an existing outdoor wood furnace already installed and
there is new construction of a residence not served by the outdoor wood furnace
within 300 feet of such outdoor wood furnace, then the owner of such outdoor
wood furnace shall conform to the stack height requirements of this regulation
within 30 days of the date such construction is complete and upon written
notice from the Zoning Inspector.
   (E)   Setbacks for EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified models shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located at least 25 feet from the
property line; and
      (2)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located on the property in
compliance with manufacturer’s recommendations and/or testing and listing
requirements for clearance to combustible materials.
   (F)   Chimney heights for EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified models shall be
as follows. EPA OWHH Phase 1 Program qualified model chimney shall extend at
least two feet above the peak of the residence for which it serves if
neighboring residences not served by the furnace are located within 300 feet or
the chimney shall extend at least two feet above the peak of any residence not
served by the furnace within 100 feet, whichever is greater.
   (G)   Outdoor furnaces that use corn, wood pellets or other palletized
biomass shall meet the same setback and stack height requirements as EPA OWHH
Phase 1 Program qualified models.
(Ord. O-03-2013, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 91.18 APPEALS/VARIANCES.
   Appeals from any actions, decisions or rulings in the enforcement of this
chapter or for a variance from the strict application of the specific
requirements of this subchapter may be made to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
Requests for all appeals shall be made in writing in accordance with §§
153.190 through
153.195.
(Ord. O-03-2013, passed 3-19-2013)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates §
91.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (B)   Whoever violates §
91.02 or any provision of the Ohio Fire Code relating to the sale, possession,
exhibiting or exploding of fireworks is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate §§
91.15 through
91.18 shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor, punishable as under the state
statutes in effect at the time of the offense. Each day on which a violation
occurs shall be considered a separate offense.
      (2)   Compliance with §§
91.15 through
91.18 may also be compelled and violations restrained by order or by injunction
of a court of competent jurisdiction. Any person who violates any provision of
§§
91.15 through
91.18 may also be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $200, to be
recovered by the village in a civil action and each week’s continued violation
shall be for this purpose a separate and distinct violation. In the event the
village is required to take legal action to enforce this local law, the
violator may be responsible for any and all necessary costs relative thereto,
including attorneys’ fees, and such expense shall be charged to the property so
affected by including such expense in the next annual tax levy against the
property.
(Ord. O-03-2013, passed 3-19-2013; Ord. O-19-2022, passed 6-7-2022; Ord. O-29-
2022, passed 6-19-2022; Ord. O-41-2022, passed 10-4-2022)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
Weeds
   
92.01   Keeping down weeds
   
92.02   Notice of violation
Junk and/or Junk Motor Vehicles
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Abandonment of vehicles
   
92.17   Storage declared a nuisance
   
92.18   Storage prohibited; exception; notice
   
92.19   Impounding
 
   
92.99   Penalty
WEEDS
§ 92.01 KEEPING DOWN WEEDS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that noxious weeds growing on any property
within the village after May 1 or each year are a public nuisance, and any
person owning or having charge of land within the municipality shall keep said
property free and clear from all such noxious weeds and shall be required to
cut all such weeds on the lots owned or controlled by him or her within five
days of the receipt of the notice provided by §
92.02.
   (B)   Noxious weeds shall include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur or
other weeds of a like kind;
      (2)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry, further
known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties; and
      (3)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or
other ornamental plants growing to a height exceeding 12 inches.
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
    If any person violates §
92.01, the village may provide certified mail service upon the property owner
at the tax mailing address for that property as currently reported on the
website of the Tuscarawas County Auditor, requesting that the property owner
take action within five days to remedy the violation of §
92.01. If service of notice cannot be completed hereunder, the village shall
provide ordinary mail notice pursuant to §
10.19, and said service of notice shall be deemed complete as provided in §
10.19. Failure to remedy the violation as requested in the notice shall subject
the violator to a penalty under §
92.99.
(Ord. O-44-2022, passed 9-20-2022; Ord. O-17-2024, passed 8-6-2024)
JUNK AND/OR JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 92.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle meeting all of the following
requirements:
      (1)   Left on private property for more than 72 hours without the
permission of the person having the right to possession of the property, on a
public street or other property open to the public for purposes of vehicular
travel or parking, or upon or within the right-of-way of any road or highway
for 48 hours or longer;
      (2)   Three years old or older;
      (3)   Extensively damaged, such damage including, but not limited to, any
of the following: missing wheels, tires, motor or transmission;
      (4)   Apparently inoperable; and
      (5)   Having a fair market value of $1,500 or less.
   JUNK. Any machinery, equipment, apparatus, appliance, article or item which,
by reason of its condition or placement:
      (1)   Endangers human health, life or limb, or is likely to cause the
spread of disease or otherwise cause injury to the health of persons, or to
surrounding neighborhood structures;
      (2)   Is especially susceptible to occurrence of fire and constitutes or
creates a fire hazard;
      (3)   Causes a deteriorating or blighting influence on nearby properties
and causes depreciation in the use, enjoyment or value of properties in the
immediately surrounding area; or
      (4)   Is ready for destruction or has been collected or stored for
salvage or conversion to some other use.
   JUNK CAR. Any used vehicle propelled or intended to be propelled by power
other than human power and which is in an inoperative or a partially dismantled
condition. Portions of JUNK CARS, such as hoods, fenders, radiators, rims,
motors and the like, not being used for the repair of a motor vehicle, shall be
considered as junk.
   INOPERATIVE CONDITION. A vehicle propelled or intended to be propelled under
its own power.
   PARTIALLY DISMANTLED CONDITION. A vehicle having some part missing which is
ordinarily an essential component.
   PROPERTY. Discarded articles of all kinds which reasonably appear to be
discarded or of no intrinsic value.
(Ord. O-20-2004, passed 11-16-2004; Ord. O-19-2020, passed 5-19-2020)
§ 92.16 ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES.
   No person shall abandon any vehicle and no person shall leave any vehicle at
any place for such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle
reasonably to appear to have been abandoned.
(Ord. O-20-2004, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.17 STORAGE DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
92.18, the deposit, storage, maintenance or collection of junk or junk cars
outside of a building is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and offensive
to the public health, welfare and safety of the inhabitants of the village.
(Ord. O-20-2004, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 92.18 STORAGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION; NOTICE.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any premises, whether as owner,
tenant, lessee, occupant or otherwise shall allow any junk or junk motor
vehicle to remain upon such premises longer than ten days after receipt of
written notice to remove the junk or junk cars from the premises, unless they
are housed in a garage or other suitable structure.
   (B)   The written notice shall be served upon the person in charge or
control of the premises either personally or at the usual place of residence or
by registered or certified mail addressed to the person’s last known place of
residence.
   (C)   The provisions of this section, however, shall not apply to the
deposit, storage, maintenance or collection of junk or junk cars in an enclosed
building or in a container in a regularly established junk yard.
(Ord. O-20-2004, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 IMPOUNDING.
   The Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department designated by him
or her is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be removed any junk car
remaining at any place in violation of any provision of this subchapter. Such
junk car shall be impounded until lawfully claimed or disposed of in accordance
with the provisions of R.C. §§ 737.32 and 737.33.
(Ord. O-20-2004, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
92.01 or
92.02 , for which another penalty is not already provided, shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   Whoever fails to cut weeds under their control as required by §
92.01, after receipt of the notice set forth in §
92.02, shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor, and each day’s violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates §§
92.15 through
92.19 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(Ord. O-18-2005, passed 8-16-2005)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Shade Trees
   
93.01   Shade Tree Commission
   
93.02   Planting permit required
   
93.03   Care, maintenance, trimming and removal
   
93.04   Nuisance
   
93.05   Notice to remove trees
   
93.06   Billposting on trees
   
93.07   Trees
Alleys
   
93.20   Improvement of alleys
   
93.21   Written requests
Street Openings and Excavations
   
93.30   Street opening permit required
   
93.31   Application and deposit required for street opening permit
   
93.32   Deposit required; restoration specifications
   
93.33   Barriers and warning lights around excavations
   
93.34   Protection of adjoining properties from street openings
   
93.35   Permits and fees for above-ground utility controls
 
   
93.99   Penalty
SHADE TREES
§ 93.01 SHADE TREE COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Shade Tree Commission, which
Commission shall consist of the following members: the Mayor, Chairperson of
the Park Committee, the Chairperson of the Street Committee, the Street
Superintendent, and the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator.
   (B)   The Shade Tree Commission shall have the power to study, investigate,
plan, advise, report and recommend to Village Council or the Mayor, any action,
program, plan or legislation which the Commission shall find or determine to be
necessary or advisable for the care, preservation, trimming, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in public ways, curb
strips, streets and alleys.
   (C)   A majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business. All plans, findings, advice, reports and recommendations made by the
Commission shall be in writing and shall designate by name those members of the
Commission approving or concurring therein, and members who do not so approve
or concur therein shall have the right, as a part of such report, to state
their reasons for refusing to approve or concur.
   (D)   The Commission, when requested by Village Council or the Mayor, shall
consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend upon any special
matter of question coming within the scope of its work.
(Ord. O-08-01, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 93.02 PLANTING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall hereafter plant any tree or shrub upon any public way,
curb strip, street or alley, unless he or she shall have first obtained a
permit in writing from the Mayor specifying the size, type, species and
location on the public way, curb strip, street or alley of the tree or shrub so
to be planted.
   (B)   The Mayor shall have the authority to deny a permit to any person who
proposes to plant any tree or shrub upon a public way, curb strip, street or
alley of a size, type or species found to be undesirable by the Commission or
so found to be undesirable for the location proposed; or he or she may deny a
permit to any person who proposes to plant any tree or shrub upon a public way,
curb strip, street or alley, if at a location found by the Commission to be of
a size or type unsuitable for planting of trees or shrubs.
(Ord. O-08-01, passed 5-15-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CARE, MAINTENANCE, TRIMMING AND REMOVAL.
   The owner, occupant or person having the care of any building or lot of land
bordering on any street, alley or public ground, including, but not limited to,
curb strip, in which there are shade trees shall be responsible for the care,
maintenance, trimming and removal of said trees, and shall be the person
responsible for any correction or removal required when any of said trees
violates the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. O-08-01, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 93.04 NUISANCE.
   Any tree or shrub or parts thereof growing within the curb strip in front of
any residence located within the village, and interfering with the use of any
street, alley, gas pipe, water or sewer pipe, or that endangers the lives,
health, safety or property of the public, shall be declared a public nuisance.
The owner shall be notified in writing of the existence of the nuisance and
given a reasonable time for its correction or removal. If not corrected or
removed within the time allotted, the Village Council shall cause the nuisance
to be corrected or removed, and the costs shall be assessed to the owner, as
provided by law.
(Ord. O-08-01, passed 5-15-2001)
§ 93.05 NOTICE TO REMOVE TREES.
   No person shall maintain any tree, heretofore planted or set out, upon any
street, sidewalk or alley in the village after ten days from receipt of notice
from the Mayor to remove the tree for the reason that the roots thereof have
grown into the sanitary or storm sewers of the village and constitute an
obstruction therein.
(Ord. O-08-01, passed 5-15-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 BILLPOSTING ON TREES.
   No person shall nail, tie or in any other manner fasten any card, sign or
poster to any tree or shrub that is now or may hereafter be growing upon a
public street, park or other public place within the village or under control
of the village, except with the permission of the Mayor.
(Ord. O-08-01, passed 5-15-2001) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 TREES.
   Street trees, when planted, shall be located outside the street right-of-way
of any sewer or water easements that may be adjacent to the street right-of-way
and planted in such manner as not to impair visibility at any corner or
corners. Subdividers or developers shall retain existing trees wherever
possible.
(Ord. O-08-01, passed 5-15-2001)
ALLEYS
§ 93.20 IMPROVEMENT OF ALLEYS.
   The following procedure shall apply with regard to the improvement of any
alleys which have been platted within the village, but remain unimproved.
   (A)   For the purposes of this policy, the term UNIMPROVED ALLEY shall
denote an alley located within the village which has been dedicated and
accepted as such an alley but which is not improved through paving or graveling
of the surface for roadway purposes.
   (B)   Any party or parties desirous of improving an unimproved alley shall
submit a written request for review by the Village Council seeking permission
to improve the alley.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such written request, the Village Council shall refer
the request to the Street and Alley Committee and may receive comment from the
Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator, the Village Zoning
Inspector or any other village employee or officer prior to considering whether
or not to grant approval of such written request.
   (D)   As a prerequisite to granting approval, the party or parties making
the written request shall agree in writing to pay all of the following expenses
incurred in the improvement and development of any alley, including, but not
limited to, all engineering expenses, survey costs and legal fees, together
with the cost of the actual materials necessary to improve such alley.
   (E)   The base must be as previously established for all village alleys and
streets in the village, and the width of the improved alley shall not be less
than 12 feet.
   (F)   The length of the alley seeking to be improved shall not extend beyond
the property line of the property owners adjacent to the alley to be developed.
   (G)   Two sets of plans shall be submitted to the Village Council and
approved prior to any development.
   (H)   The owners whose property abuts the alley seeking to be improved are
to be notified and have the opportunity to be heard by Village Council.
   (I)   The Village Administrator and the Street Department will determine the
finished grade of the alley.
   (J)   Once the alley in question is developed in accordance with the above
provisions, the village shall agree to maintain such alley as thereafter
improved. Any such alley shall at all times remain the property of the village.
   (K)   No person shall place any structure, barricade, objects, obstacles or
items which impede reasonable access for purposes of ingress and egress through
an unimproved alley, and any such items are subject to removal at the expense
of the offending party.
   (L)   No person shall cause any damage to any unimproved alley or public
property line within the alley prior to the unimproved alley being improved,
and any unimproved alley shall not be driven on prior to it becoming improved
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (M)   It is the express policy of the village that any person causing any
damage to any unimproved alley shall pay for any and all costs associated with
the damage to the alley, as well as any village water and/or sewer lines buried
beneath the undeveloped alley, as well as any other utility buried beneath the
undeveloped alley.
   (N)   No structure shall be built on any public alley, improved or
unimproved and anyone desirous of using an unimproved public alley for planting
trees, gardening and the like, shall do so at their own risk.
(Ord. O-07-2019, passed - -2019) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 WRITTEN REQUESTS.
   The written requests for review to improve an unimproved alley shall include
compelling reasons for improving said unimproved alley. The village has the
absolute authority to deny any written requests for improving an unimproved
alley within the village.
(Ord. O-07-2019, passed - -2019)
STREET OPENINGS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 93.30 STREET OPENING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the Village Administrator,
the Village Engineer, or the authorized employees or agents of either, to make
any opening in any street, alley, sidewalk, or public right-of-way of the
municipality unless a permit to make the opening has been obtained prior to
commencement of the work, as provided in §
93.31.
(Ord. O-27-2024, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 93.31 APPLICATION AND DEPOSIT REQUIRED FOR STREET OPENING PERMIT.
   Each permit for making an opening shall be confined to a single project and
shall be issued by the Village Administrator. Application shall be in a form
prescribed by Council, giving the exact location of the proposed opening, the
kind of paving, the area and depth to be excavated, and such other facts as may
be provided for. The permit shall be issued only after a cash deposit
sufficient to cover the cost of restoration has been made with the Fiscal
Officer and conditioned upon prompt and satisfactory refilling of excavations
and restoration of all surfaces disturbed. The Village Administrator shall have
the discretion to require the applicant to enter into a written agreement, in a
form approved by the Village Solicitor, requiring the applicant to meet certain
time and quality standards and providing for stipulated liquidated delay
damages of up to $250 per opening per day, that would be in addition to any
repair costs incurred under §
93.32, any remedies for the public under §
93.33, and any penalties under §
93.99. The Village Administrator shall have the discretion to deny such permits
to applicants that the Village Administrator, in the Administrator's sole
discretion, deems unresponsible, and shall have the discretion to delay the
grant of such permits based on factors such as other activities occurring in
the village or weather or seasonal factors.
(Ord. O-27-2024, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 93.32 DEPOSIT REQUIRED; RESTORATION SPECIFICATIONS.
   No person or entity desiring to open any of the public ways in the village
shall fail to comply with the following provisions:
   (A)   For the opening of any public street, highway or sealed alley within
the village, a cash deposit of $2,500 per opening shall be paid to the Fiscal
Officer, except that in the Village Administrator's sole discretion, that
deposit may be a greater sum to take into account the anticipated complexity
and duration of a proposed project. After the opening to the street, highway,
or sealed alley has been properly repaired to the satisfaction of the Village
Administrator or the Administrator's duly authorized representative, the
deposit shall be returned. If the street, highway, or sealed alley is not
properly repaired, the village shall cause the work to be done with the $2,500
deposit, pursuant to the specifications in divisions (B), (C), and (D) below
and return any unused portion of such deposit. The applicant shall be
responsible to the village to the extent the village's cost of repair exceeds
the amount of the deposit.
   (B)   No excavation shall be more than 36 inches in width. The restoration
of the excavation shall be as follows:
      (1)   All dirt removed during the course of excavation shall be removed
from the site of the excavation;
      (2)   The pipe or line placed in the excavation shall be covered with 12
inches of coarse sand and the remainder of the excavation shall be filled to
within eight inches of the existing road surface with pea gravel or with No. 46
gravel; and
      (3)   A minimum of six inches of concrete shall cover such gravel and a
minimum of two inches of hot-mix blacktop shall cover the concrete to the
existing road level.
   (C)   In the opening of an unsealed alley, the applicant shall restore the
alley to the condition it was in before the work was begun and cover it with
gravel. The required deposit for such an alley shall be $1,000 per opening.
   (D)   All excavations and openings in any public ways in the village shall
be completed for each individual installation on the same day in which the
excavation or opening is made, unless permission has been granted by the
Village Administrator or the Administrator's duly authorized representative to
do otherwise.
(Ord. O-27-2024, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 93.33 BARRIERS AND WARNING LIGHTS AROUND EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Any person or entity engaged in or employing others in excavating or
opening any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way shall have the
excavation or opening fully barricaded at all times to prevent injury to
persons or animals.
   (B)   No person or entity shall abandon or knowingly permit to remain on
public or private property any exaction, well, cesspool, or structure which is
in the process of construction, reconstruction, repair, or alteration unless
the same is adequately protected by suitable barricades and guarded by warning
devices or lights at night so that the condition will not reasonably prove
dangerous to life or limb.
   (C)   No person or entity shall destroy, remove, damage or extinguish any
barricade or warning light that is placed for the protection of the public so
as to prevent injury to life or limb.
(Ord. O-27-2024, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 93.34 PROTECTION OF ADJOINING PROPERTIES FROM STREET OPENINGS.
   §§
93.31 through
93.33 are deemed for the benefit of properties, and owners and occupants
thereof that adjoin street openings. All excavations and restoration pursuant
to any street opening permit issued by the Village Administrator shall not
disturb such adjoining properties, and to the extent they do, the applicant
shall be directly responsible to the owners or occupants of such adjoining
properties for the cost of restoration of such adjoining properties to their
condition before any permitted street opening. The Village Administrator may
withhold repayment of any deposit made under §
93.32 until such restoration is complete to the satisfaction of the Village
Administrator, or may direct the use of such funds for that purpose. This
section is not intended to limit in any way the remedies available under
applicable law to owners or occupants of affected adjoining properties.
(Ord. O-27-2024, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 93.35 PERMITS AND FEES FOR ABOVE-GROUND UTILITY CONTROLS.
   No person or entity, as part of an underground utility or communications
network, shall install above-ground utility boxes or vaults within a village
right-of-way without first obtaining a permit and paying the required fee for
each such box or vault. The permit application shall either be part of the
permit application described in §
93.31 or be a separate application on a form prescribed by Village Council.
Said application shall be accompanied by nonrefundable payment of a $50 fee for
each such box or vault less than 12 inches in height and width at the base, a
$500 fee for each such box or vault more than 23 inches in height and width at
the base, and a $200 fee for each such box or vault that is larger than the $50
box or vault and smaller than the $500 box or vault. Said fees are annual fees
for each calendar year or part of a calendar year during which such boxes or
vaults will be located within a village right-of-way. This fee is in addition
to all deposits paid under §
93.32.
(Ord. O-27-2024, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.07 is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. At least a $25 fine is mandatory upon
conviction or findings of guilty for violation of each and every offense.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of maintaining such nuisances in §§
93.06 and
93.07 on the premises owned or controlled by him or her, and/or abutting the
premises, shall be fined not more than $10. Each day’s subsequent maintenance
of such nuisance after conviction hereunder shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. O-08-01, passed 5-15-2001)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESSES GENERALLY
      
111.   GARAGE SALES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESSES GENERALLY
Section
   
110.01   Bowling; billiards; pinball machines; other game machines
   
110.02   Circuses, menageries, carnivals
   
110.03   Musical or minstrel entertainment
§ 110.01 BOWLING; BILLIARDS; PINBALL MACHINES; OTHER GAME MACHINES.
   (A)   Each owner of a billiard table, pool table, bowling alley, pinball
machine, technical amusement device or jukebox shall pay an annual license fee
of $10 for one such table, alley, pinball machine, mechanical amusement device
or jukebox; $5 for each additional table, alley, pinball machine, device or
jukebox.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires different meaning.
      JUKEBOX. Any music vending machine, contrivance or device which, upon
insertion of a coin, slug, token, plate, disc or key into any slot, crevice or
other opening, or by the payment of any price, operates or may be operated for
the emission of songs, music or similar amusement.
      MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A machine which, upon insertion of a coin or
slug, operates or may be operated for use as a game, contest or amusement of
any discretion, or which may be used for any such games, contests or
amusements, and which contains no automatic pay-off device for the return of
money, coins, merchandise or tokens, or checks redeemable in money or anything
of value.
   (C)   No person shall have, possess or operate in any public place, any such
table, alley, pinball machine, mechanical amusement device or jukebox, without
first obtaining a license therefore from the Mayor or Clerk, by filling out an
appropriate application blank as the same may be obtained from the Mayor, Clerk
or police of the village and returning the same with the license fee provided
in division (A) of this section, to the Village Clerk.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate any such table, alley, machine,
mechanical amusement device or jukebox between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00
a.m.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to permit betting or gambling in connection with
the use of such table, alley, pinball machine, mechanical amusement device or
jukebox.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 CIRCUSES, MENAGERIES, CARNIVALS.
   (A)   Each person desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus, menagerie,
carnival, sideshow, musical or minstrel entertainment, or exhibition of
monsters or freaks of nature, for which money or reward is demanded or
received, shall first obtain a license and pay the license fee or fees provided
herein.
   (B)   The applicant for a license to conduct, stage or give such exhibition
shall give at least one week’s notice in writing to the Mayor, stating the
dates of the performances, and the location at which they are to be presented.
The Mayor or other chief administrative officer shall give his or her consent
to the issuance of such license if he or she deems that the location is
suitable for the purpose; that it will properly accommodate the patrons; that
the nature of the performance or exhibition is morally proper; and that the use
of said location will not throw too great a burden upon the Police and Fire
Department.
   (C)   No circus, menagerie or carnival shall be given for more than two
consecutive days, except in cases where Council by special resolution shall
allow a longer period, or where such exhibition is to be conducted on municipal
property and the use thereof for a longer period shall have been approved by
Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 MUSICAL OR MINSTREL ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   Each person desiring to conduct, stage or give musical or minstrel
entertainment shall first obtain a license and pay the license fee provided
herein.
   (B)   Each such applicant for a license to conduct, stage or give such
entertainment shall furnish at least 72 hours notice in writing to the Mayor,
stating the dates of the performances, and the location at which they are to be
presented. The Mayor or other chief administrative officer shall give his or
her consent to the issuance of such license if he or she deems that the
location is suitable for that purpose; that it will properly accommodate the
patrons; that the nature of the performance is morally proper; and that the use
of said location will not throw too great a burden upon the Police and Fire
Department.
   (C)   The fee for such license, which is non-refundable, shall be $10 for
the first day of each performance in any given week and $5 for each day
thereafter in any given week, a week to consist of the period from Sunday
through Saturday.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Regulations
   
111.03   Persons and sales excepted
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. All sales within the village entitled or labeled garage sale,
yard sale, lawn sale, attic sale, rummage sale, flea market sale, basement
sale, porch sale or any similar title; and shall be defined as any non-
commercial public sale of tangible personal property in the village which is
advertised by any means whereby the public at large is or can be made aware of
such sale.
   PERSON. Individuals, families or all people living or residing upon the
premises where such garage sale is conducted.
   TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any goods, household goods or used items of
furniture or other property accumulated for personal use, which are owned or
under the control of the person or persons residing at the address from which
the garage sale is to be held, or by those persons conducting the garage sale.
(Ord. O-14-2004, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to conduct more than
two garage sales during any calendar year, except as set forth hereinafter.
   (B)   No single garage sale may continue for more than four consecutive
calendar days.
   (C)   Any single garage sale may be conducted only by the occupant residing
at the address at which the sale is to be held, or in conjunction with no more
than two other families not residing at that address.
   (D)   Any person conducting a garage sale may sell only property accumulated
for personal use by the occupants residing at that address at which the sale is
to be held or by those persons with whom such sale is to be conducted. No items
shall be offered for sale at such garage sale which have been purchased
specifically for resale.
   (E)   Garage sales may only be conducted between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
7:00 p.m. on any day.
   (F)   No person, firm, group, corporation, association or organization shall
sell or offer to sell any personal property at a garage sale to be advertised
or held out by any means without first registering such garage sale with the
Village Clerk. There shall be no fee charged to register such sale. To register
a sale, the applicant must provide the following information to the Village
Clerk:
      (1)   The name of the person, firm, group, corporation, association or
organization conducting the sale;
      (2)   The location or locations at which the sale is to be conducted;
      (3)   The number of days which the sale is to be conducted within the
limit set forth above; and
      (4)   The dates of any past sale or sales held within the current
calendar year.
   (G)   Signs advertising a garage sale may be placed only on the premises
where said sale is being conducted, or any other private property with the
permission of the owner thereof. No signs shall be placed on utility poles,
sign posts or curb lawns. Any signs so placed are subject to being immediately
removed by the Police Department. All signs advertising said garage sale shall
be removed at the end of the last day of said sale.
   (H)   Items offered for sale during the garage sale shall be removed from
plain or open view at the end of each day of said garage sale, either by
covering the same in an acceptable manner or removing the same from the
location of the sale until the next sale day.
   (I)   In addition to the two garage sales permitted during each calendar
year, garage sales shall be permitted within the village during Garage Sale
Weekend, defined as the second weekend in August, beginning Thursday at 7:00
a.m. through the following Monday at 7:00 p.m. In the event of rain, the Garage
Sale Weekend shall be the third weekend in August.
   (J)   No permit or registration of a garage sale conducted during the Garage
Sale Weekend shall be required to conduct a garage sale during that time
period.
   (K)   All the rules and regulations set forth above with respect to
individual garage sales shall also apply to garage sales conducted during the
Garage Sale Weekend.
(Ord. O-14-2004, passed 11-16-2004) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03 PERSONS AND SALES EXCEPTED.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to or affect the following
persons or sales:
   (A)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or a process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers, duties and authority
as public officials;
   (C)   Any persons selling or advertising for sale an item or items of
personal property which are specifically named or described in an advertisement
within the classified section of a local newspaper and not otherwise advertised
as a garage sale;
   (D)   Sales by a religious, charitable or service organization, the proceeds
of which are used for religious, charitable or community service purposes;
   (E)   Sales conducted by an auctioneer or duly licensed under the laws of
the state; and
   (F)   Any sale conducted by any merchant or mercantile or other business
establishment from or at a place of business wherein such sale would be
permitted by the zoning ordinances or under the protection of a presently non-
conforming section thereof, or any other sale conducted by a manufacturer,
dealer or vendor, which sale would be conducted from properly zoned premises
and is not otherwise prohibited; provided, however that any such business sale
shall be subject to the following rules and regulations:
      (1)   No such sales shall be conducted from any public street or
sidewalk, nor shall any public street or sidewalk be permitted to be encumbered
with barrels, boxes, cans, articles or substances of any kind so as to
interfere with the free and unobstructive use thereof;
      (2)   No such sales shall be conducted from motor vehicles or any other
non-permanent business establishments, located either on the public streets,
rights-of-way or sidewalks within the village; and
      (3)   Any items offered at such sale or at a sidewalk sale shall be
removed into the adjoining business establishment every evening of said sale.
(Ord. O-14-2004, passed 11-16-2004)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor. Each day of said violation shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. O-14-2004, passed 11-16-2004)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
133.   SEX OFFENSES
      
134.   GAMBLING OFFENSES
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
136.   OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
      
137.   WEAPONS CONTROL
      
138.   DRUG OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Application of Title XIII
   
130.02   Definitions
   
130.03   Classification of offenses
   
130.04   Common law offenses abrogated
   
130.05   Rules of construction
   
130.06   Limitation of criminal prosecutions
   
130.07   Requirements for criminal liability; voluntary intoxication
   
130.08   Culpable mental states
   
130.09   Organizational criminal liability
   
130.10   Personal accountability for organizational conduct
   
130.11   Attempt
   
130.12   Complicity
   
130.13   Presumption of innocence; proof of offense; affirmative defense
   
130.14   Battered woman syndrome
   
130.15   Delinquency adjudications deemed convictions
   
130.16   Criminal law jurisdiction
   
130.17   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property held by Police
Department
   
130.18   Imposing sentence for misdemeanor
   
130.19   Multiple sentences
   
130.20   Apprehension, detention, or arrest of persons on bond
   
130.21   Self defense: limitations on duty to retreat prior to using force
   
130.22   Reimbursement of confinement costs
   
130.23   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty for Title XIII
Statutory reference:
   Mayor’s Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1905
   Municipal Court generally, see R.C. Chapter 1901
   Trials, Magistrate Courts, see R.C. Chapter 2938
§ 130.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Title XIII of this code of ordinances embodies and prescribes
penalties for offenses against the municipality not classifiable in previous
titles and chapters. The word “misdemeanors”, as used in this title, is not
exhaustive and does not imply that offenses found elsewhere in this code of
ordinances are not also misdemeanors and punishable as such.
   (B)   Each act or omission for which a fine, imprisonment, or both is
provided under this Title or elsewhere in this code, or each act or omission
which is declared a violation of this code, is unlawful and is hereby made a
misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the penalty or penalties so provided shall be
imposed by the court.
§ 130.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRABAND. Any property that is illegal for a person to acquire or possess
under a statute, ordinance, or rule, or that a trier of fact lawfully
determines to be illegal to possess by reason of the property’s involvement in
an offense. The term includes but is not limited to all of the following:
      (1)   Any controlled substance, as defined in R.C. § 3719.01, or any
device or paraphernalia related thereto;
      (2)   Any unlawful gambling device or paraphernalia;
      (3)   Any dangerous ordnance or obscene material.
   DANGEROUS OFFENDER. A person who has committed an offense, whose history,
character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will be a
danger to others, and whose conduct has been characterized by a pattern of
repetitive, compulsive or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences.
   DEADLY FORCE. Any force that carries a substantial risk that it will
proximately result in the death of any person.
   FORCE. Any violence, compulsion, or constraint physically exerted by any
means upon or against a person or thing.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any of the following:
      (1)   A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, constable, police officer of a township
or joint police district, Marshal, deputy marshal, municipal police officer,
member of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under
R.C. § 3735.31(D) or state highway patrol trooper.
      (2)   An officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its agencies,
instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute, a duty to
conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and the
authority to arrest violators is conferred, within the limits of such statutory
duty and authority.
      (3)   The Mayor, in a capacity as chief conservator of the peace within
the municipality.
      (4)   A member of an auxiliary police force organized by the county,
township, or municipal law enforcement authorities, within the scope of the
member’s appointment or commission.
      (5)   A person lawfully called pursuant to R.C. § 311.07 to aid a sheriff
in keeping the peace, for the purposes and during the time when the person is
called.
      (6)   A person appointed by a Mayor pursuant to R.C. § 737.10 as a
special patrolling officer during a riot or emergency, for the purposes and
during the time when the person is appointed.
      (7)   A member of the organized militia of this state or the armed forces
of the United States, lawfully called to duty to aid civil authorities in
keeping the peace or protect against domestic violence.
      (8)   A prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, secret
service officer, or municipal prosecutor.
      (9)   A veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. § 5907.02.
      (10)   A member of a police force employed by a regional transit
authority under R.C. § 306.35(Y).
      (11)   A special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28.
      (12)   The House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms if the House of
Representatives Sergeant at Arms has arrest authority pursuant to R.C. §
101.311(E)(1) and an Assistant House of Representatives Sergeant at Arms.
      (13)   The Senate Sergeant at Arms and an Assistant Senate Sergeant at
Arms;
      (14)   A special police officer employed by a municipal corporation at a
municipal airport, or other municipal air navigation facility, that has
scheduled operations, as defined in 14 C.F.R. § 119.3, as amended, and that is
required to be under a security program and is governed by aviation security
rules of the Transportation Security Administration of the United States
Department of Transportation as provided in 49 C.F.R. parts 1542 and 1544, as
amended.
   NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY. A person is “not guilty by reason of
insanity” relative to a charge of an offense only if the person proves, in the
manner specified in R.C. § 2901.05, that at the time of the commission of the
offense, he or she did not know, as a result of a severe mental disease or
defect, the wrongfulness of his or her acts.
   OFFENSE OF VIOLENCE.
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.11,
2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.15, 2903.18, 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, 2905.01,
2905.02, 2905.11, 2905.32, 2907.02, 2907.03, 2907.05, 2909.02, 2909.03,
2909.24, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2917.01, 2917.02, 2917.03, 2917.31,
2917.321, 2919.25, 2921.03, 2921.04, 2921.34, or 2923.161, of division (A)(1)
of R.C. § 2903.34, of division (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) of R.C. § 2911.12, or
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) of R.C. § 2919.22, or felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States, substantially equivalent to
any section, division or offense listed in division (1) of this definition;
      (3)   An offense, other than a traffic offense, under an existing or
former municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or of the United
States, committed purposely or knowingly, and involving physical harm to
persons or a risk of serious physical harm to persons;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition;
      (5)   A violation of division (C) of R.C. § 959.131.
   PERSON.
      (1)   (a)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, as used in any
section contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, the term includes all of the following:
            1.   An individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust,
partnership and association.
            2.   An unborn human who is viable.
         (b)   As used in any section contained in Title XIII of this code that
does not set forth a criminal offense, the term includes an individual,
corporation, business trust, estate, partnership and association.
         (c)   As used in division (1)(a)2. of this definition, “unborn human”
means an individual organism of the species Homo sapiens from fertilization
until live birth. “Viable” means the stage of development of a human fetus at
which there is a realistic probability of maintaining and nourishing of a life
outside the womb with or without temporary artificial life-sustaining support.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (1)(a) of this definition, in no case
shall the portion of the definition of the term “person” that is set forth in
division (1)(a)2. of this definition be applied or construed in any section
contained in Title XIII of this code that sets forth a criminal offense in any
of the following manners:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (2)(a) of this
definition, in a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as
prohibiting any pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion
with the consent of the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman
implied by law in a medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise
authorized by law to consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant
woman. An abortion that violates the conditions described in the immediately
preceding sentence may be punished as a violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02,
2903.03, 2903.04, 2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13,
2903.14, 2903.21 or 2903.22, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, as applicable. An abortion that does not violate the conditions
described in the second immediately preceding sentence but that does violate
R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of
such section, as applicable. Consent is sufficient under this division if it is
of the type otherwise adequate to permit medical treatment to the pregnant
woman, even if it does not comply with R.C. § 2919.12.
         (b)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
            1.   Her delivery of a stillborn baby;
            2.   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying;
            3.   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human;
            4.   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human;
            5.   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any injury, illness, or other physiological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
   PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any tangible or intangible damage to property
that, in any degree, results in loss to its value or interferes with its use or
enjoyment. The term does not include wear and tear occasioned by normal use.
   PRIVILEGE. An immunity, license, or right conferred by law, or bestowed by
express or implied grant, or arising out of status, position, office, or
relationship, or growing out of necessity.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Any property, real or personal, tangible or intangible, and any
interest or license in that property. The term includes but is not limited to
cable television service, other telecommunications service, telecommunications
devices, information service, computers, data, computer software, financial
instruments associated with computers, other documents associated with
computers, or copies of the documents, whether in machine or human-readable
form, trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, and property protected by
a trademark, copyright or patent. “Financial instruments associated with
computers” include but are not limited to checks, drafts, warrants, money
orders, notes of indebtedness, certificates of deposit, letters of credit,
bills of credit or debit cards, financial transaction authorization mechanisms,
marketable securities, or any computer system representations of any of them.
      (2)   As used in this definition, “trade secret” has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 1333.61, and “telecommunications service” and “information service”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (3)   As used in this definition and in the definition of “contraband” in
this section, “cable television service”, “computer”, “computer network”,
“computer software”, “computer system”, “data”, and “telecommunications device”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   REPEAT OFFENDER. A person who has a history of persistent criminal activity
and whose character and condition reveal a substantial risk that he or she will
commit another offense. It is prima facie evidence that a person is a repeat
offender if any of the following applies:
      (1)   Having been convicted of one or more offenses of violence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent offense of
violence;
      (2)   Having been convicted of one or more sexually oriented offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2950.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent sexually oriented
offense;
      (3)   Having been convicted of one or more theft offenses, as defined in
R.C. § 2913.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for one or more
of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent theft offense;
      (4)   Having been convicted of one or more felony drug abuse offenses, as
defined in R.C. § 2925.01, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for
one or more of those offenses, he or she commits a subsequent felony drug abuse
offense;
      (5)   Having been convicted of two or more felonies, and having been
imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such offense, he or she commits a
subsequent offense;
      (6)   Having been convicted of three or more offenses of any type or
degree other than traffic offenses, alcoholic intoxication offenses, or minor
misdemeanors, and having been imprisoned pursuant to sentence for any such
offense, he or she commits a subsequent offense.
   RISK. A significant possibility, as contrasted with a remote possibility,
that a certain result may occur or that certain circumstances may exist.
   SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. Any activity held under the auspices of a board of
education of a city, local, exempted village, joint vocational, or cooperative
education school district; a governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; a governing board of an educational
service center; or the governing body of a nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL BUS. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   SCHOOL SAFETY ZONE. Consists of a school, school building, school premises,
school activity, and school bus.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PERSONS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any mental illness or condition of such gravity as would normally
require hospitalization or prolonged psychiatric treatment;
      (2)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death;
      (3)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent incapacity, whether
partial or total, or that involves some temporary, substantial incapacity;
      (4)   Any physical harm that involves some permanent disfigurement, or
that involves some temporary, serious disfigurement;
      (5)   Any physical harm that involves acute pain of such duration as to
result in substantial suffering, or that involves any degree of prolonged or
intractable pain.
   SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO PROPERTY. Any physical harm to property that does
either of the following:
      (1)   Results in substantial loss to the value of the property, or
requires a substantial amount of time, effort, or money to repair or replace;
      (2)   Temporarily prevents the use or enjoyment of the property, or
substantially interferes with its use or enjoyment for an extended period of
time.
   SUBSTANTIAL RISK. A strong possibility, as contrasted with a remote or
significant possibility, that a certain result may occur or that certain
circumstances may exist.
(R.C. §§ 2901.01, 2935.36(E))
§ 130.03 CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENSES.
   As used in this Title:
   (A)   Offenses include misdemeanors of the first, second, third, and fourth
degree, minor misdemeanors, and offenses not specifically classified.
   (B)   Regardless of the penalty that may be imposed, any offense
specifically classified as a misdemeanor is a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any offense not specifically classified is a misdemeanor if
imprisonment for not more than one year may be imposed as a penalty.
   (D)   Any offense not specifically classified is a minor misdemeanor if the
only penalty that may be imposed is one of the following:
      (1)   For an offense committed prior to January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $100;
      (2)   For an offense committed on or after January 1, 2004, a fine not
exceeding $150, community service under R.C. § 2929.27(D), or a financial
sanction other than a fine under R.C. § 2929.28.
(R.C. § 2901.02)
§ 130.04 COMMON LAW OFFENSES ABROGATED.
   (A)   No conduct constitutes a criminal offense against the municipality
unless it is defined as an offense in this code.
   (B)   An offense is defined when one or more sections of this code state a
positive prohibition or enjoin a specific duty, and provide a penalty for
violation of such prohibition or failure to meet such duty.
   (C)   This section does not affect the power of a court to punish for
contempt or to employ any sanction authorized by law to enforce an order, civil
judgment or decree.
(R.C. § 2901.03)
§ 130.05 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C) or (D) of this section,
sections of this code defining offenses or penalties shall be strictly
construed against the municipality and liberally construed in favor of the
accused.
   (B)   Rules of criminal procedure and sections of this code providing for
criminal procedure shall be construed so as to effect the fair, impartial,
speedy, and sure administration of justice.
   (C)   Any provision of a section of this code that refers to a previous
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of a section of this code, the
Ohio Revised Code or a division of a section of this code or the Ohio Revised
Code shall be construed to also refer to a previous conviction of or plea of
guilty to a substantially equivalent offense under an existing or former law of
this municipality, state, another state, or the United States or under an
existing or former municipal ordinance.
   (D)   Any provision of this code that refers to a section, or to a division
of a section, of this code that defines or specifies a criminal offense shall
be construed to also refer to an existing or former law of this state, another
state, or the United States, to an existing or former municipal ordinance, or
to an existing or former division of any such existing or former law or
ordinance that defines or specifies, or that defined or specified, a
substantially equivalent offense.
(R.C. § 2901.04)
§ 130.06 LIMITATION OF CRIMINAL PROSECUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5)
of this section or as otherwise provided in this section, a prosecution shall
be barred unless it is commenced within the following periods after an offense
is committed:
         (a)   For a felony, six years;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor other than a minor misdemeanor, two years;
         (c)   For a minor misdemeanor, six months.
      (2)   There is no period of limitation for the prosecution of a violation
of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 or for the prosecution of a conspiracy to
commit, attempt to commit or complicity in committing a violation of R.C. §
2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) through (J) of this
section, a prosecution of any of the following offenses shall be barred unless
it is commenced within 20 years after the offense is committed:
         (a)   A violation of R.C. § 2903.03, 2903.04, 2905.01, 2905.32,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.21, 2909.02, 2909.22, 2909.23, 2909.24, 2909.26,
2909.27, 2909.28, 2909.29, 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, or 2917.02, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.11 or 2903.12 if the victim is a peace officer, a
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 that is a felony, or a violation of former R.C. §
2907.12.
         (b)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing a violation set forth in division (A)(3)(a) of this section.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (D) to (L) of this
section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 or a
conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in committing a
violation of either section shall be barred unless it is commenced within 25
years after the offense is committed.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (A)(5)(b) and (E)
to (I) of this section, a prosecution of a violation of R.C. § 2907.13 shall be
barred unless it is commenced within five years after the offense is committed.
         (b)   Prosecution that would otherwise be barred under division (A)(5)
(a) of this section may be commenced within five years after the date of the
discovery of the offense by either an aggrieved person or the aggrieved
person’s legal representative who is not a party to the offense.
         (c)   As used in division (A)(5)(b) of this section, “aggrieved
person” includes any of the following individuals with regard to a violation of
R.C. § 2907.13:
            1.   A patient who was the victim of the violation;
            2.   The spouse or surviving spouse of a patient who was the victim
of the violation; and
            3.   Any child born as a result of the violation.
   (B)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2) of this section,
if the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3) of this
section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for an offense of which an
element is fraud or breach of fiduciary duty within one year after discovery of
the offense either by an aggrieved person or by the aggrieved person’s legal
representative who is not a party to the offense.
      (2)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)(3)
of this section has expired, prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2913.49
shall be commenced within five years after discovery of the offense either by
an aggrieved person or the aggrieved person’s legal representative who is not a
party to the offense.
   (C)   (1)   If the period of limitation provided in division (A)(1) or (A)
(3) of this section has expired, prosecution shall be commenced for the
following offenses during the following specified periods of time:
         (a)   For an offense involving misconduct in office by a public
servant at any time while the accused remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter;
         (b)   For an offense by a person who is not a public servant but whose
offense is directly related to the misconduct in office of a public servant, at
any time while that public servant remains a public servant, or within two
years thereafter.
      (2)   As used in this division:
         OFFENSE IS DIRECTLY RELATED TO THE MISCONDUCT IN OFFICE OF A PUBLIC
SERVANT. The phrase includes but is not limited to a violation of R.C. §
101.71, 101.91, 121.61 or 2921.13, 102.03(F) or (H), 2921.02(A), 2921.43(A) or
(B), or 3517.13(F) or (G), that is directly related to an offense involving
misconduct in office of a public servant, or a violation of any municipal
ordinance substantially equivalent to those Ohio Revised Code sections listed
in this division (C)(2).
         PUBLIC SERVANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (D)   (1)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal
investigation of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is
determined to match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if
the time of the determination is later than 25 years after the offense is
committed, prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be
commenced within five years after the determination is complete.
      (2)   If a DNA record made in connection with the criminal investigation
of the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03 is determined to
match another DNA record that is of an identifiable person and if the time of
the determination is within 25 years after the offense is committed,
prosecution of that person for a violation of the section may be commenced
within the longer of 25 years after the offense is committed or five years
after the determination is complete.
      (3)   As used in this division, DNA RECORD has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 109.573.
   (E)   An offense is committed when every element of the offense occurs. In
the case of an offense of which an element is a continuing course of conduct,
the period of limitation does not begin to run until such course of conduct or
the accused’s accountability for it terminates, whichever occurs first.
   (F)   A prosecution is commenced on the date an indictment is returned or an
information filed, or on the date a lawful arrest without a warrant is made, or
on the date a warrant, summons, citation, or other process is issued, whichever
occurs first. A prosecution is not commenced by the return of an indictment or
the filing of an information unless reasonable diligence is exercised to issue
and execute process on the same. A prosecution is not commenced upon issuance
of a warrant, summons, citation, or other process unless reasonable diligence
is exercised to execute the same.
   (G)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the corpus
delicti remains undiscovered.
   (H)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time when the
accused purposely avoids prosecution. Proof that the accused departed this
municipality or conceals the accused’s identity or whereabouts is prima facie
evidence of the accused’s purpose to avoid prosecution.
   (I)   The period of limitation shall not run during any time a prosecution
against the accused based on the same conduct is pending in this state, even
though the indictment, information, or process that commenced the prosecution
is quashed or the proceedings on the indictment, information, or process are
set aside or reversed on appeal.
   (J)   The period of limitation for a violation of this Title XIII or Title
XXIX of the Ohio Revised Code that involves a physical or mental wound, injury,
disability, or condition of a nature that reasonably indicates abuse or neglect
of a child under 18 years of age or of a child with a developmental disability
or physical impairment under 21 years of age shall not begin to run until
either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The victim of the offense reaches the age of majority.
      (2)   A public children services agency, or a municipal or county peace
officer that is not the parent or guardian of the child, in the county in which
the child resides or in which the abuse or neglect is occurring or has occurred
has been notified that abuse or neglect is known, suspected, or believed to
have occurred.
   (K)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (L)   (1)   The amendments to divisions (A) and (D) of this section that
took effect on July 16, 2015 apply to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02 or 2907.03
committed on and after July 16, 2015, and apply to a violation of either of
those sections committed prior to July 16, 2015, if prosecution for that
violation was not barred under this section as it existed on July 16, 2015.
      (2)   The amendment to division (A)(2) of this section that took effect
on April 4, 2023 applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit or
complicity in committing a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 if the
conspiracy, attempt or complicity is committed on or after April 4, 2023, and
applies to a conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit or complicity in
committing a violation of either of those sections if the conspiracy, attempt
or complicity was committed prior to April 4, 2023, and prosecution for that
conspiracy, attempt or complicity was not barred under this section as it
existed on the day prior to April 4, 2023.
(R.C. § 2901.13)
Statutory reference:
   Limitation for income tax violations, see R.C. § 718.12
§ 130.07 REQUIREMENTS FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY; VOLUNTARY INTOXICATION.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, a person is not
guilty of an offense unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The person’s liability is based on conduct that includes either a
voluntary act, or an omission to perform an act or duty that the person is
capable of performing;
      (2)   The person has the requisite degree of culpability for each element
as to which a culpable mental state is specified by the language defining the
offense.
   (B)   When the language defining an offense does not specify any degree of
culpability, and plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict criminal
liability for the conduct described in the section, then culpability is not
required for a person to be guilty of the offense. The fact that one division
of a section plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict liability for an
offense defined in that division does not by itself plainly indicate a purpose
to impose strict criminal liability for an offense defined in other divisions
of the section that do not specify a degree of culpability.
   (C)   (1)   When language defining an element of an offense that is related
to knowledge or intent or to which mens rea could fairly be applied neither
specifies culpability nor plainly indicates a purpose to impose strict
liability, the element of the offense is established only if a person acts
recklessly.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to offenses defined
in R.C. Title XLV.
      (3)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not relieve the prosecution of
the burden of proving the culpable mental state required by any definition
incorporated into the offense.
   (D)   Voluntary intoxication may not be taken into consideration in
determining the existence of a mental state that is an element of a criminal
offense. Voluntary intoxication does not relieve a person of a duty to act if
failure to act constitutes a criminal offense. Evidence that a person was
voluntarily intoxicated may be admissible to show whether or not the person was
physically capable of performing the act with which the person is charged.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CULPABILITY. Means purpose, knowledge, recklessness, or negligence, as
defined in R.C. § 2901.22.
      INTOXICATION. Includes but is not limited to intoxication resulting from
the ingestion of alcohol, a drug, or alcohol and a drug.
      INVOLUNTARY ACTS. Means reflexes, convulsions, body movements during
unconsciousness or sleep, and body movements that are not otherwise a product
of the actor’s volition are involuntary acts.
      POSSESSION. Means a voluntary act if the possessor knowingly procured or
received the thing possessed, or was aware of the possessor’s control of the
thing possessed for a sufficient time to have ended possession.
(R.C. § 2901.21)
§ 130.08 CULPABLE MENTAL STATES.
   (A)   A person acts purposely when it is the person’s specific intention to
cause a certain result, or, when the gist of the offense is a prohibition
against conduct of a certain nature, regardless of what the offender intends to
accomplish thereby, it is the offender’s specific intention to engage in
conduct of that nature.
   (B)   A person acts knowingly, regardless of purpose, when the person is
aware that the person’s conduct will probably cause a certain result or will
probably be of a certain nature. A person has knowledge of circumstances when
the person is aware that such circumstances probably exist. When knowledge of
the existence of a particular fact is an element of an offense, such knowledge
is established if a person subjectively believes that there is a high
probability of its existence and fails to make inquiry or acts with a conscious
purpose to avoid learning the fact.
   (C)   A person acts recklessly when, with heedless indifference to the
consequences, the person disregards a substantial and unjustifiable risk that
the person’s conduct is likely to cause a certain result or is likely to be of
a certain nature. A person is reckless with respect to circumstances when, with
heedless indifference to the consequences, the person disregards a substantial
and unjustifiable risk that such circumstances are likely to exist.
   (D)   A person acts negligently when, because of a substantial lapse from
due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that the person’s
conduct may cause a certain result or may be of a certain nature. A person is
negligent with respect to circumstances when, because of a substantial lapse
from due care, the person fails to perceive or avoid a risk that such
circumstances may exist.
   (E)   When the section defining an offense provides that negligence suffices
to establish an element thereof, then recklessness, knowledge, or purpose is
also sufficient culpability for such element. When recklessness suffices to
establish an element of an offense, then knowledge or purpose is also
sufficient culpability for such element. When knowledge suffices to establish
an element of an offense, then purpose is also sufficient culpability for such
element.
(R.C. § 2901.22)
§ 130.09 ORGANIZATIONAL CRIMINAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   An organization may be convicted of an offense under any of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   The offense is a minor misdemeanor committed by an officer, agent,
or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except that if the
section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or employees for
whose conduct the organization is accountable or the circumstances under which
it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (2)   A purpose to impose organizational liability plainly appears in the
section defining the offense, and the offense is committed by an officer,
agent, or employee of the organization acting in its behalf and within the
scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s office or employment, except
that if the section defining the offense designates the officers, agents, or
employees for whose conduct the organization is accountable or the
circumstances under which it is accountable, those provisions shall apply.
      (3)   The offense consists of an omission to discharge a specific duty
imposed by law on the organization.
      (4)   If, acting with the kind of culpability otherwise required for the
commission of the offense, its commission was authorized, requested, commanded,
tolerated, or performed by the board of directors, trustees, partners, or by a
high managerial officer, agent, or employee acting in behalf of the
organization and within the scope of such a board’s or person’s office or
employment.
   (B)   If strict liability is imposed for the commission of an offense, a
purpose to impose organizational liability shall be presumed, unless the
contrary plainly appears.
   (C)   In a prosecution of an organization for an offense other than one for
which strict liability is imposed, it is a defense that the high managerial
officer, agent, or employee having supervisory responsibility over the subject
matter of the offense exercised due diligence to prevent its commission. This
defense is not available if it plainly appears inconsistent with the purpose of
the section defining the offense.
   (D)   As used in this section, ORGANIZATION means a corporation for profit
or not for profit, partnership, limited partnership, joint venture,
unincorporated nonprofit association, estate, trust, or other commercial or
legal entity. The term does not include an entity organized as or by a
governmental agency for the execution of a governmental program.
(R.C. § 2901.23)
§ 130.10 PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ORGANIZATIONAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   An officer, agent, or employee of an organization, as defined in R.C.
§ 2901.23, may be prosecuted for an offense committed by such organization, if
he or she acts with the kind of culpability required for the commission of the
offense, and any of the following apply:
      (1)   In the name of the organization or in its behalf, he or she engages
in conduct constituting the offense, or causes another to engage in such
conduct, or tolerates such conduct when it is of a type for which he or she has
direct responsibility;
      (2)   He or she has primary responsibility to discharge a duty imposed on
the organization by law, and such duty is not discharged.
   (B)   When a person is convicted of an offense by reason of this section, he
or she is subject to the same penalty as if he or she had acted in his or her
own behalf.
(R.C. § 2901.24)
§ 130.11 ATTEMPT.
   (A)   No person, purposely or knowingly, and when purpose or knowledge is
sufficient culpability for the commission of an offense, shall engage in
conduct that, if successful, would constitute or result in the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that, in retrospect,
commission of the offense that was the object of the attempt was either
factually or legally impossible under the attendant circumstances, if that
offense could have been committed had the attendant circumstances been as the
actor believed them to be.
   (C)   No person who is convicted of committing a specific offense, of
complicity in the commission of an offense, or of conspiracy to commit an
offense, shall be convicted of an attempt to commit the same offense in
violation of this section.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor abandoned his or her effort to commit the offense or otherwise prevented
its commission, under circumstances manifesting a complete and voluntary
renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of an attempt to commit an
offense. An attempt to commit aggravated murder, murder, or an offense for
which the maximum penalty is imprisonment for life is a felony of the first
degree, to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to commit a
drug abuse offense for which the penalty is determined by the amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance involved in the drug abuse offense is
an offense of the same degree as the drug abuse offense attempted would be if
that drug abuse offense had been committed and had involved an amount or number
of unit doses of the controlled substance that is within the next lower range
of controlled substance amounts than was involved in the attempt. An attempt to
commit any other offense is an offense of the next lesser degree than the
offense attempted. In the case of an attempt to commit an offense other than a
violation of R.C. Chapter 3734 that is not specifically classified, an attempt
is a misdemeanor of the first degree if the offense attempted is a felony, and
a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the offense attempted is a misdemeanor.
In the case of an attempt to commit a violation of any provision of R.C.
Chapter 3734, other than R.C. § 3734.18, that relates to hazardous wastes, an
attempt is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. An attempt to
commit a minor misdemeanor, or to engage in conspiracy, is not an offense under
this section.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
(R.C. § 2923.02)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
   Solid and hazardous wastes, see R.C. Chapter 3734
§ 130.12 COMPLICITY.
   (A)   No person, acting with the kind of culpability required for the
commission of an offense, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Solicit or procure another to commit the offense;
      (2)   Aid or abet another in committing the offense;
      (3)   Conspire with another to commit the offense in violation of R.C. §
2923.01;
      (4)   Cause an innocent or irresponsible person to commit the offense.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that no person with
whom the accused was in complicity has been convicted as a principal offender.
   (C)   No person shall be convicted of complicity under this section unless
an offense is actually committed, but a person may be convicted of complicity
in an attempt to commit an offense in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (D)   If an alleged accomplice of the defendant testifies against the
defendant in a case in which the defendant is charged with complicity in the
commission of or an attempt to commit an offense, an attempt to commit an
offense, or an offense, the court shall charge the jury in accordance with R.C.
§ 2923.03(D).
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that,
prior to the commission of or attempt to commit the offense, the actor
terminated his or her complicity, under circumstances manifesting a complete
and voluntary renunciation of his or her criminal purpose.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of complicity in the
commission of an offense, and shall be prosecuted and punished as if he or she
were a principal offender. A charge of complicity may be stated in terms of
this section, or in terms of the principal offense.
(R.C. § 2923.03)
Statutory reference:
   Conspiracy, see R.C. § 2923.01
§ 130.13 PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE; PROOF OF OFFENSE; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   (A)   Every person accused of an offense is presumed innocent until proven
guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, and the burden of proof for all elements of
the offense is upon the prosecution. The burden of going forward with the
evidence of an affirmative defense, and the burden of proof by a preponderance
of the evidence, for an affirmative defense other than self-defense, defense of
another, or defense of the accused’s residence presented as described in
division (B)(1) of this section, is upon the accused.
   (B)   (1)   A person is allowed to act in self-defense, defense of another,
or defense of that person’s residence. If, at the trial of a person who is
accused of an offense that involved the person’s use of force against another,
there is evidence presented that tends to support that the accused person used
the force in self-defense, defense of another, or defense of that person’s
residence, the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the
accused person did not use the force in self-defense, defense of another, or
defense of that person’s residence, as the case may be.
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(3) of this section, a person is presumed to
have acted in self-defense or defense of another when using defensive force
that is intended or likely to cause death or great bodily harm to another if
the person against whom the defensive force is used is in the process of
unlawfully and without privilege to do so entering, or has unlawfully and
without privilege to do so entered, the residence or vehicle occupied by the
person using the defensive force.
      (3)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section does
not apply if either of the following is true:
         (a)   The person against whom the defensive force is used has a right
to be in, or is a lawful resident of, the residence or vehicle.
         (b)   The person who uses the defensive force uses it while in a
residence or vehicle and the person is unlawfully, and without privilege to be,
in that residence or vehicle.
      (4)   The presumption set forth in division (B)(2) of this section is a
rebuttable presumption and may be rebutted by a preponderance of the evidence,
provided that the prosecution’s burden of proof remains proof beyond a
reasonable doubt as described in divisions (A) and (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   As part of its charge to the jury in a criminal case, the court shall
read the definitions of “reasonable doubt” and “proof beyond a reasonable
doubt”, contained in division (E) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. An affirmative defense is either of the following:
         (a)   A defense expressly designated as affirmative;
         (b)   A defense involving an excuse or justification peculiarly within
the knowledge of the accused, on which the accused can fairly be required to
adduce supporting evidence.
      DWELLING. Means a building or conveyance of any kind that has a roof over
it and that is designed to be occupied by people lodging in the building or
conveyance at night, regardless of whether the building or conveyance is
temporary or permanent or is mobile or immobile. As used in this division, a
building or conveyance includes but is not limited to an attached porch, and a
building or conveyance with a roof over it includes but is not limited to a
tent.
      RESIDENCE. Means a dwelling in which a person resides either temporarily
or permanently or is visiting as a guest.
      VEHICLE. Means a conveyance of any kind, whether or not motorized, that
is designed to transport people or property.
   (E)   “Reasonable doubt” is present when the jurors, after they have
carefully considered and compared all the evidence, cannot say they are firmly
convinced of the truth of the charge. It is a doubt based on reasonable and
common sense. Reasonable doubt is not mere possible doubt, because everything
relating to human affairs or depending on moral evidence is open to some
possible or imaginary doubt. “Proof beyond a reasonable doubt” is proof of such
character that an ordinary person would be willing to rely and act upon it in
the most important of the person’s own affairs.
(R.C. § 2901.05)
§ 130.14 BATTERED WOMAN SYNDROME.
   (A)   The municipality hereby declares that it recognizes both of the
following, in relation to the “battered woman syndrome”: that the syndrome
currently is a matter of commonly accepted scientific knowledge, and that the
subject matter and details of the syndrome are not within the general
understanding or experience of a person who is a member of the general populace
and are not within the field of common knowledge.
   (B)   If a person is charged with an offense involving the use of force
against another and the person, as a defense to the offense charged, raises the
affirmative defense of self defense, the person may introduce expert testimony
of the “battered woman syndrome” and expert testimony that the person suffered
from that syndrome as evidence to establish the requisite belief of an imminent
danger of death or great bodily harm that is necessary, as an element of the
affirmative defense, to justify the person’s use of force in question. The
introduction of any expert testimony under this division shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Rules of Evidence.
(R.C. § 2901.06)
§ 130.15 DELINQUENCY ADJUDICATIONS DEEMED CONVICTIONS.
   (A)   If a person is alleged to have committed an offense and if the person
previously has been adjudicated a delinquent child or juvenile traffic offender
for a violation of a law or ordinance, except as provided in division (B) of
this section, the adjudication as a delinquent child or as a juvenile traffic
offender is a conviction for a violation of the law for purposes of determining
the offense with which the person should be charged and, if the person is
convicted of or pleads guilty to an offense, the sentence to be imposed upon
the person relative to the conviction or guilty plea.
   (B)   A previous adjudication of a person as a delinquent child or juvenile
traffic offender for a violation of a law or ordinance is not a conviction for
a violation of the law or ordinance for purposes of determining any of the
following:
      (1)   Whether the person is a repeat violent offender, as defined in R.C.
§ 2929.01, or whether the person should be sentenced as a repeat violent
offender under R.C. § 2929.14(B)(2) and R.C. § 2941.149;
      (2)    Whether the person is a violent career criminal as defined in R.C.
§ 2923.132, whether the person has committed unlawful use of a weapon by a
violent career criminal in violation of R.C. § 2923.132 or should be sentenced
for that offense under that section, or whether the person should be sentenced
under R.C. § 2929.14(K) as a violent career criminal who had a firearm on or
about the person’s person or under the person’s control while committing a
violent felony offense and displayed or brandished the firearm, indicated that
the offender possessed a firearm, or used the firearm to facilitate the
offense.
(R.C. § 2901.08)
§ 130.16 CRIMINAL LAW JURISDICTION.
   (A)   A person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The person commits an offense under the laws of this municipality,
any element of which takes place in this municipality;
      (2)   While in this municipality, the person attempts to commit, or is
guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in another jurisdiction,
which offense is an offense under both the laws of this municipality and the
other jurisdiction, or, while in this municipality, the person conspires to
commit an offense in another jurisdiction, which offense is an offense under
both the laws of this municipality and the other jurisdiction, and a
substantial overt act in furtherance of the conspiracy is undertaken in this
municipality by the person or another person involved in the conspiracy,
subsequent to the person’s entrance into the conspiracy. In any case in which a
person attempts to commit, is guilty of complicity in the commission of, or
conspires to commit an offense in another jurisdiction as described in this
division, the person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in this
municipality for the attempt, complicity, or conspiracy, and for any resulting
offense that is committed or completed in the other jurisdiction;
      (3)   While out of this municipality, the person conspires or attempts to
commit, or is guilty of complicity in the commission of, an offense in this
municipality;
      (4)   While out of this municipality, the person omits to perform a legal
duty imposed by the laws of this municipality, which omission affects a
legitimate interest of the municipality in protecting, governing or regulating
any person, property, thing, transaction, or activity in this municipality;
      (5)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
retains property and subsequently brings any of the unlawfully taken or
retained property into this municipality;
      (6)   While out of this municipality, the person unlawfully takes or
entices another person and subsequently brings the other person into this
municipality;
      (7)   The person, by means of a computer, computer system, computer
network, telecommunication, telecommunications device, telecommunications
service, or information service, causes or knowingly permits any writing, data,
image or other telecommunication to be disseminated or transmitted into this
municipality in violation of the law of this state or municipality.
   (B)   In homicide, the element referred to in division (A)(1) of this
section includes the act that causes death, the physical contact that causes
death, the death itself, or any other element that is set forth in the offense
in question. If any part of the body of a homicide victim is found in this
municipality, the death is presumed to have occurred within this municipality.
   (C)   (1)   This municipality includes the land and water within its
boundaries and the air space above that land and water, with respect to which
this municipality has either exclusive or concurrent legislative jurisdiction.
Where the boundary between this municipality and another jurisdiction is
disputed, the disputed territory is conclusively presumed to be within this
municipality for purposes of this section.
      (2)   The courts of common pleas of Adams, Athens, Belmont, Brown,
Clermont, Columbiana, Gallia, Hamilton, Jefferson, Lawrence, Meigs, Monroe,
Scioto, and Washington counties have jurisdiction beyond the north or northwest
shore of the Ohio River extending to the opposite shore line, between the
extended boundary lines of any adjacent counties or adjacent state. Each of
those courts of common pleas has concurrent jurisdiction on the Ohio River with
any adjacent court of common pleas that borders on that river and with any
court of Kentucky or of West Virginia that borders on the Ohio River and that
has jurisdiction on the Ohio River under the law of Kentucky or the law of West
Virginia, whichever is applicable, or under federal law.
   (D)   When an offense is committed under the laws of this municipality, and
it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the offense or any element of the
offense took place either in this municipality or in another jurisdiction or
jurisdictions, but it cannot reasonably be determined in which it took place,
the offense or element is conclusively presumed to have taken place in this
municipality for purposes of this section.
   (E)   When a person is subject to criminal prosecution and punishment in
this municipality for an offense committed or completed outside this
municipality, the person is subject to all specifications for that offense that
would be applicable if the offense had been committed within this municipality.
   (F)   Any act, conduct, or element that is a basis of a person being subject
under this section to criminal prosecution and punishment in this municipality
need not be committed personally by the person as long as it is committed by
another person who is in complicity or conspiracy with the person.
   (G)   This section shall be liberally construed, consistent with
constitutional limitations, to allow this municipality the broadest possible
jurisdiction over offenses and persons committing offenses in, or affecting,
this municipality.
   (H)   For purposes of division (A)(2) of this section, an overt act is
substantial when it is of a character that manifests a purpose on the part of
the actor that the object of the conspiracy should be completed.
   (I)   As used in this section, COMPUTER, COMPUTER SYSTEM, COMPUTER NETWORK,
INFORMATION SERVICE, TELECOMMUNICATION, TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE,
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE, DATA and WRITING have the same meanings as in R.C.
§ 2913.01.
(R.C. § 2901.11)
Statutory reference:
   State criminal law jurisdiction, see R.C. § 2901.11
§ 130.17 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED OR FORFEITED PROPERTY HELD BY POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Safekeeping of property in custody.
      (1)   (a)   Any property that has been lost, abandoned, stolen, seized
pursuant to a search warrant, or otherwise lawfully seized or forfeited and
that is in the custody of the Police Department shall be kept safely by the
Police Department, pending the time it no longer is needed as evidence or for
another lawful purpose, and shall be disposed of pursuant to this section or
R.C. §§ 2981.12 and 2981.13.
         (b)   This section does not apply to the custody and disposal of any
of the following:
            1.   Vehicles subject to forfeiture under R.C. Title 45, except as
provided in division (B)(1)(f) of this section;
            2.   Abandoned junk motor vehicles or other property of negligible
value;
            3.   Property held by a department of rehabilitation and correction
institution that is unclaimed, that does not have an identified owner, that the
owner agrees to dispose of, or that is identified by the department as having
little value;
            4.   Animals taken, and devices used in unlawfully taking animals,
under R.C. § 1531.20;
            5.   Controlled substances sold by a peace officer in the
performance of the officer’s official duties under R.C. § 3719.141;
            6.   Property recovered by a township law enforcement agency under
R.C. §§ 505.105 to 505.109;
            7.   Property held and disposed of under an ordinance of the
municipality or under R.C. §§ 737.29 to 737.33, except that if the municipality
has received notice of a citizens’ reward program as provided in division (B)
(5) of this section and disposes of property under an ordinance shall pay 25%
of any moneys acquired from any sale or auction to the citizens’ reward
program.
      (2)   (a)   The Police Department shall adopt and comply with a written
internal control policy that does all of the following:
            1.   Provides for keeping detailed records as to the amount of
property acquired by the Police Department and the date property was acquired;
            2.   Provides for keeping detailed records of the disposition of
the property, which shall include but not be limited to both of the following:
               a.   The manner in which it was disposed, the date of
disposition, detailed financial records concerning any property sold, and the
name of any person who received the property. The record shall not identify or
enable identification of the individual officer who seized any item of
property.
               b.   An itemized list of the specific expenditures made with
amounts that are gained from the sale of the property and that are retained by
the agency, including the specific amount expended on each expenditure, except
that the policy shall not provide for or permit the identification of any
specific expenditure that is made in an ongoing investigation.
            3.   Complies with R.C. § 2981.13 if the Police Department has a
Law Enforcement Trust Fund or similar fund created under that section.
         (b)   The records kept under the internal control policy shall be open
to public inspection during the Police Department’s regular business hours. The
policy adopted under this section is a public record open for inspection under
R.C. § 149.43.
      (3)   The Police Department, with custody of property to be disposed of
under this section or R.C. §§ 2981.12 or 2981.13, shall make a reasonable
effort to locate persons entitled to possession of the property, to notify them
of when and where it may be claimed, and to return the property to them at the
earliest possible time. In the absence of evidence identifying persons entitled
to possession, it is sufficient notice to advertise in a newspaper of general
circulation in the county and to briefly describe the nature of the property in
custody and inviting persons to view and establish their right to it.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CITIZENS’ REWARD PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 9.92.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Includes correctional institutions.
         TOWNSHIP LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Means an organized police department
of a township, a township police district, a joint police district, or the
office of a township constable.
(R.C. § 2981.11)
   (B)   Disposition of unclaimed or forfeited property.
      (1)   Unclaimed or forfeited property in the custody of the Police
Department, other than property described in division (A)(1)(b) of this
section, shall be disposed of by order of any court of record that has
territorial jurisdiction over the municipality, as follows:
         (a)   Drugs shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 3719.11 or placed
in the custody of the Secretary of the Treasury of the United States for
disposal or use for medical or scientific purposes under applicable federal
law.
         (b)   Firearms and dangerous ordnance suitable for police work may be
given to a law enforcement agency for that purpose. Firearms suitable for
sporting use or as museum pieces or collectors’ items may be sold at public
auction pursuant to division (B)(2) of this section. The Police Department may
sell other firearms and dangerous ordnance to a federally licensed firearms
dealer in a manner that the court considers proper. The Police Department shall
destroy any firearms or dangerous ordnance not given to a law enforcement
agency or sold or shall send them to the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation for destruction by the Bureau.
         (c)   Obscene materials shall be destroyed.
         (d)   Beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol seized from a person who
does not hold a permit issued under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303 or otherwise
forfeited to the state for an offense under R.C. § 4301.45 or R.C. § 4301.53
shall be sold by the Division of Liquor Control if the Division determines that
it is fit for sale or shall be placed in the custody of the Investigations Unit
in the Ohio Department of Public Safety and be used for training relating to
law enforcement activities. The Ohio Department of Public Safety, with the
assistance of the Division of Liquor Control, shall adopt rules in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 119 to provide for the distribution to state or local law
enforcement agencies upon their request. If any tax imposed under R.C. Title 43
has not been paid in relation to the beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol, any
moneys acquired from the sale shall first be used to pay the tax. All other
money collected under this division (B)(1)(d) shall be paid into the State
Treasury. Any beer, intoxicating liquor, or alcohol that the Division
determines to be unfit for sale shall be destroyed.
         (e)   Money received by an inmate of a correctional institution from
an unauthorized source or in an unauthorized manner shall be returned to the
sender, if known, or deposited in the Inmates’ Industrial and Entertainment
Fund of the institution if the sender is not known.
         (f)   1.   Any mobile instrumentality forfeited under R.C. Chapter
2981 may be given to the law enforcement agency that initially seized the
mobile instrumentality for use in performing its duties, if the agency wants
the mobile instrumentality. The agency shall take the mobile instrumentality
subject to any security interest or lien on the mobile instrumentality.
            2.   Vehicles and vehicle parts forfeited under R.C. §§ 4549.61 to
4549.63 may be given to a law enforcement agency for use in performing its
duties. Those parts may be incorporated into any other official vehicle. Parts
that do not bear vehicle identification numbers or derivatives of them may be
sold or disposed of as provided by rules of the Director of Public Safety.
Parts from which a vehicle identification number or derivative of it has been
removed, defaced, covered, altered, or destroyed and that are not suitable for
police work or incorporation into an official vehicle shall be destroyed and
sold as junk or scrap.
         (g)   Computers, computer networks, computer systems, and computer
software suitable for police work may be given to a law enforcement agency for
that purpose or disposed of under division (B)(2) of this section.
         (h)   Money seized in connection with a violation of R.C. § 2905.32,
2907.21, or 2907.22 shall be deposited in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund
created by R.C. § 5101.87.
      (2)   Unclaimed or forfeited property that is not described in division
(B)(1) of this section or division (A)(1)(b) of this section, with court
approval, may be used by the law enforcement agency in possession of it. If it
is not used by the agency, it may be sold without appraisal at a public auction
to the highest bidder for cash or disposed of in another manner that the court
considers proper.
      (3)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(5) of this section
and after compliance with division (B)(4) of this section when applicable, any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of pursuant to this section
shall be placed in the General Revenue Fund of the state, or the General Fund
of the municipality.
      (4)   If the property was in the possession of the Police Department in
relation to a delinquent child proceeding in a juvenile court, 10% of any
moneys acquired from the sale of property disposed of under this section shall
be applied to one or more community addiction services providers, as defined in
R.C. § 5119.01. A juvenile court shall not specify a services provider, except
as provided in this division, unless the services provider is in the same
county as the court or in a contiguous county. If no services provider is
located in any of those counties, the juvenile court may specify a services
provider anywhere in Ohio. The remaining 90% of the proceeds or cash shall be
applied as provided in division (B)(3) of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If the Board of County Commissioners recognizes a citizens’
reward program under R.C. § 9.92, the Board shall notify the Police Department
of the recognition by filing a copy of its resolution conferring that
recognition with the Police Department. When the Board recognizes a citizens’
reward program and the county includes a part, but not all, of the territory of
the municipality, the Board shall so notify the Police Department of the
recognition of the citizens’ reward program only if the county contains the
highest percentage of the municipality’s population.
         (b)   Upon being so notified, the Police Department shall pay 25% of
any forfeited proceeds or cash derived from each sale of property disposed of
pursuant to this section to the citizens’ reward program for use exclusively to
pay rewards. No part of the funds may be used to pay expenses associated with
the program. If a citizens’ reward program that operates in more than one
county or in another state in addition to this state receives funds under this
section, the funds shall be used to pay rewards only for tips and information
to law enforcement agencies concerning offenses committed in the county from
which the funds were received.
      (6)   Any property forfeited under R.C. Chapter 2981 not be used to pay
any fine imposed upon a person who is convicted of or pleads guilty to an
underlying criminal offense or a different offense arising out of the same
facts and circumstances.
      (7)   Any moneys acquired from the sale of personal effects, tools, or
other property seized because the personal effects, tools, or other property
were used in the commission of a violation of R.C. § 2905.32, 2907.21, or
2907.22 or derived from the proceeds of the commission of a violation of R.C. §
2905.32, 2907.21, or 2907.22 and disposed of pursuant to this division (B)
shall be placed in the Victims of Human Trafficking Fund created by R.C. §
5101.87.
(R.C. § 2981.12)
   (C)   Disposition of contraband, proceeds, or instrumentalities. Except as
otherwise provided in R.C. § 2981.13, property ordered forfeited as contraband,
proceeds, or an instrumentality pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2981 shall be disposed
of, used, or sold pursuant to division (B) of this section or R.C. § 2981.12.
If the property is to be sold under division (B) of this section or R.C. §
2981.12, the prosecutor shall cause notice of the proposed sale to be given in
accordance with law.
(R.C. § 2981.13(A))
Statutory reference:
   Forfeiture of property generally, see R.C. Chapter 2981
§ 130.18 IMPOSING SENTENCE FOR MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a mandatory jail term is required to be imposed by R.C. §
1547.99(G), 4510.14(B), or 4511.19(G), or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code, or any municipal ordinance, a court that imposes a sentence under
this chapter upon an offender for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor has
discretion to determine the most effective way to achieve the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
      (2)   Unless a specific sanction is required to be imposed or is
precluded from being imposed by the section setting forth an offense or the
penalty for an offense or by any provision of §
130.99 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.23 through 2929.28, a court that imposes a
sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor may impose on the offender any
sanction or combination of sanctions under §
130.99(C) through (G). The court shall not impose a sentence that imposes an
unnecessary burden on local government resources.
   (B)   (1)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, the
court shall consider all of the following factors:
         (a)   The nature and circumstances of the offense or offenses;
         (b)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender has a history of persistent criminal
activity and that the offender’s character and condition reveal a substantial
risk that the offender will commit another offense;
         (c)   Whether the circumstances regarding the offender and the offense
or offenses indicate that the offender’s history, character, and condition
reveal a substantial risk that the offender will be a danger to others and that
the offender’s conduct has been characterized by a pattern of repetitive,
compulsive, or aggressive behavior with heedless indifference to the
consequences;
         (d)   Whether the victim’s youth, age, disability, or other factor
made the victim particularly vulnerable to the offense or made the impact of
the offense more serious;
         (e)   Whether the offender is likely to commit future crimes in
general, in addition to the circumstances described in divisions (B)(1)(b) and
(B)(1)(c) of this section;
         (f)   Whether the offender has an emotional, mental, or physical
condition that is traceable to the offender’s service in the armed forces of
the United States and that was a contributing factor in the offender’s
commission of the offense or offenses;
         (g)   The offender’s military service record.
      (2)   In determining the appropriate sentence for a misdemeanor, in
addition to complying with division (B)(1) of this section, the court may
consider any other factors that are relevant to achieving the purposes and
principles of sentencing set forth in §
130.99(B).
   (C)   Before imposing a jail term as a sentence for a misdemeanor, a court
shall consider the appropriateness of imposing a community control sanction or
a combination of community control sanctions under §
130.99(D), (E), (F) and (G). A court may impose the longest jail term
authorized under §
130.99(C) only upon offenders who commit the worst forms of the offense or upon
offenders whose conduct and response to prior sanctions for prior offenses
demonstrate that the imposition of the longest jail term is necessary to deter
the offender from committing a future criminal offense.
   (D)   (1)   A sentencing court shall consider any relevant oral and written
statement made by the victim, the victim’s representative, the victim’s
attorney, if applicable, the defendant, the defense attorney and the
prosecuting authority regarding sentencing for a misdemeanor. This division
does not create any rights to notice other than those rights authorized by R.C.
Chapter 2930.
      (2)   At the time of sentencing for a misdemeanor or as soon as possible
after sentencing, the court shall notify the victim of the offense of the
victim’s right to file an application for an award of reparations pursuant to
R.C. §§ 2743.51 through 2743.72.
(R.C. § 2929.22)
§ 130.19 MULTIPLE SENTENCES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2929.14(C),
or R.C. § 2971.03(D) or (E), a prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment shall be served concurrently with any other prison term, jail
term, or sentence of imprisonment imposed by a court of this municipality, this
state, another state, or the United States. Except as provided in division (B)
(2) of this section, a jail term or sentence of imprisonment for misdemeanor
shall be served concurrently with a prison term or sentence of imprisonment for
felony served in a state or federal correctional institution.
   (B)   (1)   A jail term or sentence of imprisonment for a misdemeanor shall
be served consecutively to any other prison term, jail term, or sentence of
imprisonment when the trial court specifies that it is to be served
consecutively or when it is imposed for a misdemeanor violation of R.C. §
2907.322, 2921.34 or 2923.131. When consecutive sentences are imposed for
misdemeanors under this division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the
consecutive terms imposed, except that the aggregate term to be served shall
not exceed 18 months.
      (2)    A jail term or sentence of imprisonment imposed for a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 4510.11, 4510.14, 4510.16, 4510.21, or 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, shall be served consecutively to
a prison term that is imposed for a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08
or 4511.19 or a felony violation of R.C. § 2903.04 involving the operation of a
vehicle by the offender and that is served in a state correctional institution
when the trial court specifies that it is to be served consecutively. When
consecutive jail terms or sentences of imprisonment and prison terms are
imposed for one or more misdemeanors and one or more felonies under this
division, the term to be served is the aggregate of the consecutive terms
imposed, and the offender shall serve all terms imposed for a felony before
serving any term imposed for a misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2929.41)
§ 130.20 APPREHENSION, DETENTION, OR ARREST OF PERSON ON BOND.
   (A)   No person, other than a law enforcement officer, shall apprehend,
detain, or arrest a principal on bond, wherever issued, unless that person
meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The person is any of the following:
         (a)   Qualified, licensed, and appointed as a surety bail bond agent
under R.C. §§ 3905.83 through 3905.95;
         (b)   Licensed as a surety bail bond agent by the state where the bond
was written;
         (c)   Licensed as a private investigator under R.C. Chapter 4749;
         (d)   Licensed as a private investigator by the state where the bond
was written;
         (e)   An off-duty peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2921.51.
      (2)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has entered into a written contract with the surety or with a
licensed surety bail bond agent appointed by the surety, which contract sets
forth the name of the principal who is to be apprehended, detained, or
arrested. For purposes of this division (A)(2), SURETY has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 3905.83.
      (3)   The person, prior to apprehending, detaining, or arresting the
principal, has notified the local law enforcement agency having jurisdiction
over the area in which such activities will be performed and has provided any
form or identification or other information requested by the law enforcement
agency.
   (B)   No person shall represent the person’s self to be a bail enforcement
agent or bounty hunter, or claim any similar title, in this municipality.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal bail bond agent
practices.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (A) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of division (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.27)
 § 130.21 SELF DEFENSE: LIMITATIONS ON DUTY TO RETREAT PRIOR TO USING FORCE.
   (A)   As used in this section, RESIDENCE has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2901.05.
   (B)   For purposes of any section of this code that sets forth a criminal
offense, a person has no duty to retreat before using force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence if that person is in
a place in which the person lawfully has a right to be.
   (C)   A trier of fact shall not consider the possibility of retreat as a
factor in determining whether or not a person who used force in self-defense,
defense of another, or defense of that person’s residence reasonably believed
that the force was necessary to prevent injury, loss, or risk to life or
safety.
(R.C. § 2901.09)
§ 130.22 REIMBURSEMENT OF CONFINEMENT COSTS.
   (A)   Any person convicted of a criminal offense under the code and
ordinances of the village, other than a minor misdemeanor, and who as a
consequence thereof, is confined in the county jail or any other workhouse or
detention facility, shall reimburse the village for its expenses incurred by
reason of his or her confinement therein, including, but not limited to, the
expenses relating to the providing of food, clothing, medical care and shelter.
The amount of such reimbursement shall be determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction at a hearing held pursuant to R.C. § 2929.15.
   (B)   The Village Solicitor is authorized to pursue the recovery of expenses
in any pending criminal action involving a violation of the village code of
ordinances, and is further authorized to institute any appropriate civil suit
in the New Philadelphia Municipal Court, or in the County Court of Common Pleas
for the recovery of the expenses determined by a court of competent
jurisdiction pursuant to R.C. § 2929.15.
§ 130.23 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 or, in equivalent phrasing often
herein employed, any person 17 or less years of age.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a minor:
         (a)   As a natural or adoptive parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian;
         (c)   As a person who stands in loco parentis; and
         (d)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      REMAIN. To stay behind, to tarry and to stay unnecessarily upon the
streets, including the congregating of groups or of interacting minors,
totaling four or more persons in which any minor involved would not be using
the streets for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going
home.
      STREET. A way or place, of whatever nature, open to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of a
sidewalk thereof, for pedestrian travel. STREET includes the legal right-of-
way, including, but not limited to, the traffic lanes, the curb, the sidewalks,
whether paved or unpaved, and any grass plots or other grounds found within the
legal right-of-way of a street. STREET applies irrespective of what it be
called or formally named, whether alley, avenue, court, road or otherwise.
      TIME OF NIGHT. Based in the prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern
Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Saving Time, generally observed at that hour
by the public in the municipality, prima facie the time then observed in the
municipal administrative offices and police station.
      YEAR OF AGE. Continues from one birthday, such as the seventeenth to, but
not including the day of, the next, such as the eighteenth birthday, making it
clear that 17 or less years of age is herein treated as equivalent to the
phrase “under 18 years of age.” Similarly, for example, 11 or less years of age
means “under 12 years of age.”
   (B)   Curfew hours. No person 17 or less years of age shall be or remain in
or upon the streets within the municipality at night during the period ending
at 6:00 a.m. and beginning at 9:00 p.m.
   (C)   Exceptions. In the following exceptional cases, a minor on a street
during the nocturnal hours for which division (B) of this section is intended
to provide the maximum limits of regulation shall not be considered in
violation of this section:
      (1)   When accompanied by a parent of such minor;
      (2)   When accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent of such minor
to take the parent’s place in accompanying the minor for a designated period of
time and purpose within a specified area;
      (3)   When exercising First Amendment rights protected by the U.S.
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly. Such minor shall evidence the bona fide of such exercise by
delivering the communications center personnel, at the municipal building,
where and by whom high priority messages to the Mayor are regularly received,
written communication signed by such minor and countersigned if practicable by
a parent of such minor with his or her home address and telephone number,
addressed to the Mayor specifying when, where and in what matter the minor will
be on the streets at night, during the hours when this section is otherwise
applicable to the minor, in the exercise of a First Amendment right specified
in such communication;
      (4)   In case of reasonable necessity, but only after such minor’s parent
has communicated to the police station personnel the facts establishing such
reasonable such reasonable necessity relating to specified streets at a
designated time for a described purpose, including points of origin and
destination. A copy of such communication, or of the police record thereof,
duly certified by the Chief of Police to be correct, with an appropriate
notification of the time it was received and of the names and addresses of such
parent and minor, shall be admissible evidence;
      (5)   When the minor is on the sidewalk of the place where such minor
resides, or on the sidewalk of either next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to the police officer;
      (6)   When returning home by a direct route from and within 30 minutes of
the termination of a school activity, or an activity of a religious or other
voluntary association, of which prior notice, indicating the place and probable
time of termination, has been given in writing to, and duly filed for immediate
reference by, the Chief of Police or the officer assigned by him on duty at the
police station;
      (7)   (a)   When authorized by special permit from the Mayor carried on
the person of the minor thus authorized, when necessary nighttime activities of
a minor may be inadequately provided for by other provisions of this section,
then recourse may be had to the Mayor either for a regulation as provided in
(C)(8) of this section or for a special permit a the circumstances warrant.
Upon the Mayor’s finding of necessity for the use of the streets to the extent
warranted by a written application, signed by a minor and by a parent of such
minor, if feasible, stating:
            1.   The name, age and address of such minor;
            2.   The name, address and telephone number of a parent thereof;
            3.   The height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair and other
physical characteristics of such minor;
            4.   The necessity which requires such minor to remain upon the
streets during the curfew hours otherwise applicable; and
            5.   The street or route and the beginning and ending of the period
of time involved by date and hour.
         (b)   The Mayor may grant a permit in writing for the use by the minor
of those streets at such hours as in the Mayor’s opinion may reasonably be
necessary. In an emergency, this may be handled by telephone, or other
effective communication, with a corresponding recording made contemporaneously,
either to the Mayor, or if unavailable, to the police officer authorized by the
Mayor to act on his or her behalf in an emergency, at the police station.
      (8)   When authorized by regulation issued by the Mayor, in other similar
cases of reasonable necessity, similarly handed but adapted to necessary
nighttime activities of more minors than can readily be dealt with on an
individual special perrnit basis. Normally such regulation by the Mayor
permitting use of the streets should be issued sufficiently in advance to
permit appropriate publicity through news media and through other agencies such
as the schools, and shall define the activity, the scope of the use of the
streets permitted, the period of time involved not to extend more than 30
minutes beyond the time for termination of such activity and the reason for
finding that such regulation is reasonably necessary and is consistent with the
purposes of this section;
      (9)   When the minor carries a certified card of employment, renewable
each calendar month when the current facts so warrant, dated or reissued not
more than 45 days previously, signed by the Chief of Police and briefly
identifying the minor, the addresses of his or her home and place of employment
and his or her hours of employment;
      (10)   When the minor is, with parental consent, in a motor vehicle. This
contemplates normal travel;
      (11)   When the minor is 17 years of age, if and when the Mayor has
determined, by formal rule first reported to Council, spread upon its minutes
and so reported in the press, finding the facts as to the extent of juvenile
delinquency in such age group permitting such rule, currently, in the best
interests of such minors and of the municipality, then the Mayor by such formal
rule, covering a period of time designated therein or until recision thereof
not exceeding one year from the date thereof, may take appropriate action
excepting designated minors, minors in a defined group or area or all minors,
as the current facts may warrant, 17 years of age at that date or attaining 17
years of age during the period that such formal rule is and remains in effect;
and
      (12)   Each of the foregoing exceptions, and their several limitations,
such as provisions for notification, are severable, and additional, also
severable, exceptions broadening with the progress toward maturity of minors
enrolled respectively in elementary, junior high and high schools, will be
considered by Council as government associations, school personnel, citizens,
associations, ward, precinct and neighborhood spokesperson, parents, officers
and persons in authority concerned positively with minors as well as with
juvenile delinquency.
   (D)   Parental responsibility. No parent having legal custody of a minor
shall knowingly permit or by inefficient control allow such minor to be or
remain in any street under circumstances not constituting an exception to, or
otherwise beyond the scope of this section. KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which
a parent should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a
minor in that parent’s legal custody. It is intended to continue to keep
neglectful or careless parents up to a reasonable community standard of
parental responsibility through an objective test. It shall, a fortiori, be no
defense that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities or conduct
or whereabouts of such minor.
   (E)   Police procedures. A police officer, upon finding or having attention
called to any minor on the streets in prima facie violation of this section,
normally shall take the minor to the police station, where a parent shall
immediately be notified to come for such minor, whereupon they shall be
interrogated. This is intended to permit ascertainment, under constitutional
safeguards, of relevant facts, and to centralize responsibility in the officer
there and then on duty for accurate, effective, fair, impartial and uniform
enforcement and recording, thus making available experienced supervisory
personnel, the best of facilities and access to information and records. In the
absence of convincing evidence such as a birth certificate, a police officer on
the street shall in the first instance, use his or her best judgment in
determining age.
      (1)   Police procedures shall constantly be refined in the light of
experience and may provide, inter alia, that the police officer may deliver to
a parent thereof a minor under appropriate circumstances, for example, a minor
of tender age near home whose identity and address may readily be ascertained
or are known.
      (2)   In an event, such police officer shall within 24 hours file a
written report with the Chief of Police, or shall participate to the extent of
the information for which he or she is responsible in the preparation by
himself or herself and with the officer involved in such case, in the filing of
such report within 24 hours.
      (3)   When a parent, immediately called, has come to take charge of the
minor, and the appropriate information has been recorded, the minor shall be
released to the custody of such parent. If the parent cannot be located, or
fails to take charge of the minor, then the minor shall be released to the
juvenile authorities, except to the extent that in accordance with police
regulations, approved in advance by juvenile authorities, the minor may
temporarily be entrusted to a relative, neighbor or other person who will on
behalf of a parent assume the responsibility of caring for the minor pending
the availability or arrival of a parent.
      (4)   In the case of a first violation by a minor, the Chief of Police
shall, by certified mail, send to a parent written notice of the violation with
a warning that any subsequent violation will result in full enforcement of this
section, including enforcement of parental responsibility and of applicable
penalties.
   (F)   Violations.
      (1)   If after the warning notice pursuant to division (E) above or a
first violation by a minor, a parent violates division (D) above in connection
with a second violation by such minor, this shall be treated as a first offense
by the parent. For such first parental offense, a parent shall be guilty of a
minor misdemeanor and for each subsequent offense a parent shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Any minor who violates any provision of this section more than
three times shall be dealt with in accordance with juvenile court law and
procedure.
      (3)   A like procedure, before the juvenile authorities, shall be
followed in any case where the provisions of this chapter cannot be made
effective by the imposition of other penalties under this section.
§ 130.99 PENALTY FOR TITLE XIII.
   (A)   Generally. Except where otherwise specifically classified within the
body of the section of a chapter of this title, a violation of such section
shall be deemed a misdemeanor punishable upon conviction by a fine of not more
than $500, imprisonment of not more than six months, or both.
(R.C. § 715.67)
   (B)   Considerations in misdemeanor sentencing.
      (1)   A court that sentences an offender for a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, or of any
municipal ordinance that is substantially equivalent to a misdemeanor or minor
misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised Code, shall be guided
by the overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing. The overriding purposes
of misdemeanor sentencing are to protect the public from future crime by the
offender and others and to punish the offender. To achieve those purposes, the
sentencing court shall consider the impact of the offense upon the victim and
the need for changing the offender’s behavior, rehabilitating the defender, and
making restitution to the victim of the offense, the public, or the victim and
the public.
      (2)   A sentence imposed for a misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation
of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a violation of a municipal ordinance
that is subject to division (B)(1) of this section shall be reasonably
calculated to achieve the two overriding purposes of misdemeanor sentencing set
forth in division (B)(1) of this section, commensurate with and not demeaning
to the seriousness of the offender’s conduct and its impact upon the victim,
and consistent with sentences imposed for similar offenses committed by similar
offenders.
      (3)   A court that imposes a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
or minor misdemeanor violation of an Ohio Revised Code provision or for a
violation of a municipal ordinance that is subject to division (B)(1) of this
section shall not base the sentence upon the race, ethnic background, gender,
or religion of the offender.
      (4)   Divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this section shall not apply to any
offense that is disposed of by a traffic violations bureau of any court
pursuant to Traffic Rule 13 and shall not apply to any violation of any
provision of the Ohio Revised Code that is a minor misdemeanor and that is
disposed of without a court appearance. Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3) of this
section do not affect any penalties established by the municipality for a
violation of its ordinances that are not substantially equivalent to a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor violation of a provision of the Ohio Revised
Code.
(R.C. § 2929.21)
   (C)   Misdemeanor jail terms.
      (1)   Except as provided in §
130.18 or
133.99 of this code or R.C. § 2929.22 or 2929.23 or division (C)(5) of this
section and unless another term is required or authorized pursuant to law, if
the sentencing court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor
elects or is required to impose a jail term on the offender pursuant to this
chapter, the court shall impose a definite jail term that shall be one of the
following:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than 180 days;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than 90 days;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than 60 days;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than 30 days.
      (2)   (a)   A court that sentences an offender to a jail term under
division (C) of this section may permit the offender to serve the sentence in
intermittent confinement or may authorize a limited release of the offender as
provided in division (E)(2) of this section. The court retains jurisdiction
over every offender sentenced to jail to modify the jail sentence imposed at
any time, but the court shall not reduce any mandatory jail term.
         (b)   1.   If a prosecutor, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01, has filed a
notice with the court that the prosecutor wants to be notified about a
particular case and if the court is considering modifying the jail sentence of
the offender in that case, the court shall notify the prosecutor that the court
is considering modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case. The
prosecutor may request a hearing regarding the court’s consideration of
modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, and, if the
prosecutor requests a hearing, the court shall notify the eligible offender of
the hearing.
            2.   If the prosecutor requests a hearing regarding the court’s
consideration of modifying the jail sentence of the offender in that case, the
court shall hold the hearing before considering whether or not to release the
offender from the offender’s jail sentence.
      (3)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under division (C)
of this section and the court assigns the offender to a county jail that has
established a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30, the
court shall specify, as part of the sentence, whether the offender may be
considered for participation in the program. During the offender’s term in the
county jail, the court retains jurisdiction to modify its specification
regarding the offender’s participation in the county jail industry program.
      (4)   If a person sentenced to a jail term pursuant to division (C) of
this section, the court may impose as part of the sentence pursuant to R.C. §
2929.28 a reimbursement sanction, and, if the local detention facility in which
the term is to be served is covered by a policy adopted pursuant to R.C. §
307.93, 341.14, 341.19, 341.21, 341.23, 753.02, 753.04, 753.16, 2301.56, or
2947.19 and R.C. § 2929.37, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The court shall specify both of the following as part of the
sentence:
            1.   If the person is presented with an itemized bill pursuant to
R.C. § 2929.37 for payment of the costs of confinement, the person is required
to pay the bill in accordance with that section.
            2.   If the person does not dispute the bill described in division
(C)(4)(a)1. of this section and does not pay the bill by the times specified in
R.C. § 2929.37, the clerk of the court may issue a certificate of judgment
against the person as described in that section.
         (b)   The sentence automatically includes any certificate of judgment
issued as described in division (C)(4)(a)2. of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and to a specification of the
type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 and if the court imposes a jail term on the
offender for the misdemeanor violation, the court may impose upon the offender
an additional definite jail term as follows:
            1.   Subject to division (C)(5)(a)2. of this section, an additional
definite jail term of not more than 60 days;
            2.   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one or more misdemeanor or felony violations of R.C. § 2907.22,
2907.23, 2907.24, 2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, and also was convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1421 regarding one or more
of those violations, an additional definite jail term of not more than 120
days.
         (b)   In lieu of imposing an additional definite jail term under
division (C)(5)(a) of this section, the court may directly impose on the
offender a sanction that requires the offender to wear a real-time processing,
continual tracking electronic monitoring device during the period of time
specified by the court. The period of time specified by the court shall equal
the duration of an additional jail term that the court could have imposed upon
the offender under division (C)(5)(a) of this section. A sanction imposed under
this division shall commence on the date specified by the court, provided that
the sanction shall not commence until after the offender has served the jail
term imposed for the misdemeanor violation of R.C. § 2907.23, 2907.24,
2907.241, or 2907.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
any residential sanction imposed for the violation under division (E) of this
section or R.C. § 2929.26. A sanction imposed under this division shall be
considered to be a community control sanction for purposes of division (D) of
this section or R.C. § 2929.25, and all provisions of this code and the Ohio
Revised Code that pertain to community control sanctions shall apply to a
sanction imposed under this division, except to the extent that they would by
their nature be clearly inapplicable. The offender shall pay all costs
associated with a sanction imposed under this division, including the cost of
the use of the monitoring device.
      (6)   If an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor
violation of R.C. § 2903.13 and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
specification of the type described in R.C. § 2941.1423 that charges that the
victim of the violation was a woman whom the offender knew was pregnant at the
time of the violation, the court shall impose on the offender a mandatory jail
term that is a definite term of at least 30 days.
      (7)   If a court sentences an offender to a jail term under this division
(C), the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender and the jail
term. Upon motion of either party or upon the court’s own motion, the court, in
the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may substitute
one or more community control sanctions under division (E) or (F) of this
section for any jail days that are not mandatory jail days.
(R.C. § 2929.24)
   (D)   Misdemeanor community control sanctions.
      (1)   (a)   Except as provided in §§
130.18 and
133.99 of this code or R.C. §§ 2929.22 and 2929.23 or when a jail term is
required by law, in sentencing an offender for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, the sentencing court may do either of the following:
            1.   Directly impose a sentence that consists of one or more
community control sanctions authorized by divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this
section. The court may impose any other conditions of release under a community
control sanction that the court considers appropriate. If the court imposes a
jail term upon the offender, the court may impose any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions in addition to the jail
term.
            2.   Impose a jail term under division (C) of this section from the
range of jail terms authorized under that division for the offense, suspend all
or a portion of the jail term imposed, and place the offender under a community
control sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
divisions (E), (F), or (G) of this section.
         (b)   The duration of all community control sanctions imposed upon an
offender and in effect for an offender at any time shall not exceed five years.
         (c)   At sentencing, if a court directly imposes a community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)
(1)(a)1. of this section, the court shall state the duration of the community
control sanctions imposed and shall notify the offender that if any of the
conditions of the community control sanctions are violated the court may do any
of the following:
            1.   Impose a longer time under the same community control sanction
if the total time under all of the offender’s community control sanctions does
not exceed the five-year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this section;
            2.   Impose a more restrictive community control sanction under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, but the court is not required to
impose any particular sanction or sanctions;
            3.   Impose a definite jail term from the range of jail terms
authorized for the offense under division (C) of this section.
      (2)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control sanction
or combination of community control sanctions pursuant to division (D)(1)(a)1.
of this section, the sentencing court retains jurisdiction over the offender
and the period of community control for the duration of the period of community
control. Upon the motion of either party or on the court’s own motion, the
court, in the court’s sole discretion and as the circumstances warrant, may
modify the community control sanctions or conditions of release previously
imposed, substitute a community control sanction or condition of release for
another community control sanction or condition of release previously imposed,
or impose an additional community control sanction or condition of release.
      (3)   (a)   If a court sentences an offender to any community control
sanction or combination of community control sanctions authorized under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, the court shall place the offender
under the general control and supervision of the court or of a department of
probation in the jurisdiction that serves the court for purposes of reporting
to the court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. If
the offender resides in another jurisdiction and a department of probation has
been established to serve the municipal court or county court in that
jurisdiction, the sentencing court may request the municipal court or the
county court to receive the offender into the general control and supervision
of that department of probation for purposes of reporting to the sentencing
court a violation of any of the conditions of the sanctions imposed. The
sentencing court retains jurisdiction over any offender whom it sentences for
the duration of the sanction or sanctions imposed.
         (b)   The sentencing court shall require as a condition of any
community control sanction that the offender abide by the law and not leave the
state without the permission of the court or the offender’s probation officer.
In the interests of doing justice, rehabilitating the offender, and ensuring
the offender’s good behavior, the court may impose additional requirements on
the offender. The offender’s compliance with the additional requirements also
shall be a condition of the community control sanction imposed upon the
offender.
      (4)   (a)   If the court imposing sentence upon an offender sentences the
offender to any community control sanction or combination of community control
sanctions authorized under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section, and the
offender violates any of the conditions of the sanctions, the public or private
person or entity that supervises or administers the program or activity that
comprises the sanction shall report the violation directly to the sentencing
court or to the department of probation or probation officer with general
control and supervision over the offender. If the public or private person or
entity reports the violation to the department of probation or probation
officer, the department or officer shall report the violation to the sentencing
court.
         (b)   Except as provided in division (D)(4)(c) of this section, if an
offender violates any condition of a community control sanction, the sentencing
court may impose upon the violator one or more of the following penalties:
            1.   A longer time under the same community control sanction if the
total time under all of the community control sanctions imposed on the violator
does not exceed the five- year limit specified in division (D)(1)(b) of this
section;
            2.   A more restrictive community control sanction;
            3.   A combination of community control sanctions, including a jail
term.
         (c) If an offender was acting pursuant to R.C. § 2925.11(B)(2)(b), or
any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, or a related provision under
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14 or R.C. § 2925.141, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and in so doing violated the conditions of a
community control sanction based on a minor drug possession offense, as defined
in R.C. § 2925.11, or violated R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1) or R.C. §
2925.141, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the sentencing
court shall not impose any of the penalties described in division (D)(4)(b) of
this section based on the violation.
         (d)   If the court imposes a jail term upon a violator pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) of this section, the total time spent in jail for the
misdemeanor offense and the violation of a condition of the community control
sanction shall not exceed the maximum jail term available for the offense for
which the sanction that was violated was imposed. The court may reduce the
longer period of time that the violator is required to spend under the longer
sanction or the more restrictive sanction imposed under division (D)(4)(b) of
this section by all or part of the time the violator successfully spent under
the sanction that was initially imposed.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if an offender, for
a significant period of time, fulfills the conditions of a community control
sanction imposed pursuant to division (E), (F), or (G) of this section in an
exemplary manner, the court may reduce the period of time under the community
control sanction or impose a less restrictive community control sanction.
Fulfilling the conditions of a community control sanction does not relieve the
offender of a duty to make restitution under division (G) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.25)
   (E)   Community residential sanction.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any community residential sanction or combination of
community residential sanctions under this division (E). Community residential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of up to 180 days in a halfway house or a term in a
halfway house not to exceed the longest jail term available for the offense,
whichever is shorter, if the political subdivision that would have
responsibility for paying the costs of confining the offender in a jail has
entered into a contract with the halfway house for use of the facility for
misdemeanor offenders;
         (b)   If the offender is an eligible offender, as defined in R.C. §
307.932, a term in a community alternative sentencing center or district
community alternative sentencing center established and operated in accordance
with that section, in the circumstances specified in that section, with one of
the conditions of the sanction being that the offender successfully complete
the portion of the sentence to be served in the center.
      (2)   A sentence to a community residential sanction under division (E)
(1)(b) of this section shall be in accordance with R.C. § 307.932. In all other
cases, the court that sentences an offender to a community residential sanction
under this division (E) may do either or both of the following:
         (a)   Permit the offender to serve the offender’s sentence in
intermittent confinement, overnight, on weekends or at any other time or times
that will allow the offender to continue at the offender’s occupation or care
for the offender’s family;
         (b)   Authorize the offender to be released so that the offender may
seek or maintain employment, receive education or training, receive treatment,
perform community service, or otherwise fulfill an obligation imposed by law or
by the court. A release pursuant to this division shall be only for the
duration of time that is needed to fulfill the purpose of the release and for
travel that reasonably is necessary to fulfill the purposes of release.
      (3)   The court may order that a reasonable portion of the income earned
by the offender upon a release pursuant to division (E)(2) of this section be
applied to any financial sanction imposed under division (G) of this section.
      (4)   No court shall sentence any person to a prison term for a
misdemeanor or minor misdemeanor or to a jail term for a minor misdemeanor.
      (5)   If a court sentences a person who has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a misdemeanor to a community residential sanction as described in
division (E)(1) of this section, at the time of reception and at other times
the person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community
alternative sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing
center, or other place at which the offender will serve the residential
sanction determines to be appropriate, the person in charge of the operation of
the halfway house, community alternative sentencing center, district community
alternative sentencing center, or other place may cause the convicted offender
to be examined and tested for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis, including
but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, and other contagious diseases. The
person in charge of the operation of the halfway house, community alternative
sentencing center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other
place at which the offender will serve the residential sanction may cause a
convicted offender in the halfway house, community alternative sentencing
center, district community alternative sentencing center, or other place who
refuses to be tested or treated for tuberculosis, HIV infection, hepatitis,
including but not limited to hepatitis A, B, and C, or another contagious
disease to be tested and treated involuntarily.
      (6)   The municipality may enter into a contract with a halfway house for
use of the halfway house to house misdemeanor offenders under a sanction
imposed under division (E)(1)(a) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.26)
   (F)   Nonresidential sanction where jail term is not mandatory.
      (1)   Except when a mandatory jail term is required by law, the court
imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a minor misdemeanor, may
impose upon the offender any nonresidential sanction or combination of
nonresidential sanctions authorized under this division. Nonresidential
sanctions include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   A term of day reporting;
         (b)   A term of house arrest with electronic monitoring or continuous
alcohol monitoring or both electronic monitoring and continuous alcohol
monitoring, a term of electronic monitoring or continuous alcohol monitoring
without house arrest, or a term of house arrest without electronic monitoring
or continuous alcohol monitoring;
         (c)   A term of community service of up to 500 hours for misdemeanor
of the first degree or 200 hours for a misdemeanor of the second, third, or
fourth degree;
         (d)   A term in a drug treatment program with a level of security for
the offender as determined necessary by the court;
         (e)   A term of intensive probation supervision;
         (f)   A term of basic probation supervision;
         (g)   A term of monitored time;
         (h)   A term of drug and alcohol use monitoring, including random drug
testing;
         (i)   A curfew term;
         (j)   A requirement that the offender obtain employment;
         (k)   A requirement that the offender obtain education or training;
         (l)   Provided the court obtains the prior approval of the victim, a
requirement that the offender participate in victim-offender mediation;
         (m)   If authorized by law, suspension of the offender’s privilege to
operate a motor vehicle, immobilization or forfeiture of the offender’s motor
vehicle, a requirement that the offender obtain a valid motor vehicle
operator’s license, or any other related sanction;
         (n)   A requirement that the offender obtain counseling if the offense
is a violation of R.C. § 2919.25 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance or a violation of R.C. § 2903.13 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance involving a person who was a family or household member at
the time of the violation, if the offender committed the offense in the
vicinity of one or more children who are not victims of the offense, and if the
offender or the victim of the offense is a parent, guardian, custodian, or
person in loco parentis of one or more of those children. This division does
not limit the court in requiring that the offender obtain counseling for any
offense or in any circumstance not specified in this division.
      (2)   If the court imposes a term of community service pursuant to
division (F)(1)(c) of this section, the offender may request that the court
modify the sentence to authorize the offender to make a reasonable
contribution, as determined by the court, to the general fund of the county,
municipality, or other local entity that provides funding to the court. The
court may grant the request if the offender demonstrates a change in
circumstances from the date the court imposes the sentence or that the
modification would otherwise be in the interests of justice. If the court
grants the request, the offender shall make a reasonable contribution to the
court, and the clerk of the court shall deposit that contribution into the
general fund of the county, municipality, or other local entity that provides
funding to the court. If more than one entity provides funding to the court,
the clerk shall deposit a percentage of the reasonable contribution equal to
the percentage of funding the entity provides to the court in that entity’s
general fund.
      (3)   In addition to the sanctions authorized under division (F)(1) of
this section, the court imposing a sentence for a misdemeanor, other than a
minor misdemeanor, upon an offender who is not required to serve a mandatory
jail term may impose any other sanction that is intended to discourage the
offender or other persons from committing a similar offense if the sanction is
reasonably related to the overriding purposes and principles of misdemeanor
sentencing.
      (4)   The court imposing a sentence for a minor misdemeanor may impose a
term of community service in lieu of all or part of a fine. The term of
community service imposed for a minor misdemeanor shall not exceed 30 hours.
After imposing a term of community service, the court may modify the sentence
to authorize a reasonable contribution, as determined by the court, to the
appropriate general fund as provided in division (F)(2) of this section.
(R.C. § 2929.27)
   (G)   Financial sanctions.
      (1)   In addition to imposing court costs pursuant to R.C. § 2947.23, the
court imposing a sentence upon an offender for a misdemeanor, including a minor
misdemeanor, may sentence the offender to any financial sanction or combination
of financial sanctions authorized under this division (G) and, if the offender
is being sentenced for a criminal offense as defined in R.C. § 2930.01, shall
sentence the offender to make restitution pursuant to this division (G) and
R.C. § 2929.281. If the court, in its discretion or as required by this
division (G), imposes one or more financial sanctions, the financial sanctions
that may be imposed pursuant to this division (G) include, but are not limited
to, the following:
         (a)   Restitution.
            1.   Unless the misdemeanor offense could be disposed of by the
traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic Rule 13, restitution
by the offender to the victim of the offender’s crime or the victim’s estate,
in an amount based on the victim’s economic loss. The court may not impose
restitution as a sanction pursuant to this division if the offense could be
disposed of by the traffic violations bureau serving the court under Traffic
Rule 13. If the court requires restitution, the court shall order that the
restitution be made to the victim in open court or to the adult probation
department that serves the jurisdiction or the clerk of the court on behalf of
the victim.
            2.   The court shall determine the amount of restitution to be paid
by the offender. The victim, victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if
applicable, the prosecutor or the prosecutor’s designee, and the offender may
provide information relevant to the determination of the amount of restitution.
The amount the court orders as restitution shall not exceed the amount of the
economic loss suffered by the victim as a direct and proximate result of the
commission of the offense. If the court imposes restitution for the cost of
accounting or auditing done to determine the extent of economic loss, the court
may order restitution for any amount of the victim’s costs of accounting or
auditing provided that the amount of restitution is reasonable and does not
exceed the value of property or services stolen or damaged as a result of the
offense. If the court decides to or is required to impose restitution, the
court shall hold an evidentiary hearing on restitution if the offender, victim,
victim’s representative, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or victim’s estate
disputes the amount of restitution. The court shall determine the amount of
full restitution by a preponderance of the evidence.
            3.   All restitution payments shall be credited against any
recovery of economic loss in a civil action brought by the victim or the
victim’s estate against the offender. No person may introduce evidence of an
award of restitution under this division (G) in a civil action for purposes of
imposing liability against an insurer under R.C. § 3937.18.
            4.   The court may order that the offender pay a surcharge, of not
more than 5% of the amount of the restitution otherwise ordered, to the entity
responsible for collecting and processing restitution payments.
            5.   The victim, victim’s attorney, if applicable, or the attorney
for the victim’s estate may request that the prosecutor in the case file a
motion, or the offender may file a motion, for modification of the payment
terms of any restitution ordered. If the court grants the motion, it may modify
the payment terms as it determines appropriate but shall not reduce the amount
of restitution ordered, except as provided in R.C. § 2929.281(A).
         (b)   Fines. A fine of the type described in divisions (G)(1)(b)1. and
(G)(1)(b)2. of this section payable to the appropriate entity as required by
law:
            1.   A fine in the following amount:
               a.   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than
$1,000;
               b.   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $750;
               c.   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $500;
               d.   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $250;
               e.   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $150.
            2.   A state fine or cost as defined in R.C. § 2949.111.
         (c)   Reimbursement.
            1.   Reimbursement by the offender of any or all of the costs of
sanctions incurred by the government, including but not limited to the
following:
               a.   All or part of the costs of implementing any community
control sanction, including a supervision fee under R.C. § 2951.021 and the
costs of global positioning system device monitoring;
               b.   All or part of the costs of confinement in a jail or other
residential facility, including but not limited to a per diem fee for room and
board, the costs of medical and dental treatment, and the costs of repairing
property damaged by the offender while confined;
               c.   All or part of the cost of purchasing and using an
immobilizing or disabling device, including a certified ignition interlock
device, or a remote alcohol monitoring device that a court orders an offender
to use under R.C. § 4510.13.
            2.   The amount of reimbursement under division (G)(1)(c)1. of this
section shall not exceed the total amount of reimbursement the offender is able
to pay and shall not exceed the actual cost of the sanctions. The court may
collect any amount of reimbursement the offender is required to pay under that
division. If the court does not order reimbursement under that division,
confinement costs may be assessed pursuant to a repayment policy adopted under
R.C. § 2929.37. In addition, the offender may be required to pay the fees
specified in R.C. § 2929.38 in accordance with that section.   
      (2)   (a)   If the court determines a hearing is necessary, the court may
hold a hearing to determine whether the offender is able to pay the financial
sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G) or court costs or is likely in
the future to be able to pay the sanction or costs.
         (b)   If the court determines that the offender is indigent and unable
to pay the financial sanction or court costs, the court shall consider imposing
and may impose a term of community service under division (F)(1) of this
section in lieu of imposing a financial sanction or court costs. If the court
does not determine that the offender is indigent, the court may impose a term
of community service under division (F)(1) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this division (G) and in
addition to imposing court costs. The court may order community service for a
minor misdemeanor pursuant to division (F)(4) of this section in lieu of or in
addition to imposing a financial sanction under this section and in addition to
imposing court costs. If a person fails to pay a financial sanction or court
costs, the court may order community service in lieu of the financial sanction
or court costs.
      (3)   (a)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the
offender pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs
incurred by a county pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the county
treasurer. The county treasurer shall deposit the reimbursements in the
county’s General Fund. The county shall use the amounts deposited in the fund
to pay the costs incurred by the county pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (b)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed upon the offender
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c) of this section to pay the costs incurred by a
municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under division (E), (F),
or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to confine offenders
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this section to the
treasurer of the municipal corporation. The treasurer shall deposit the
reimbursements in the municipal corporation’s General Fund. The municipal
corporation shall use the amounts deposited in the fund to pay the costs
incurred by the municipal corporation pursuant to any sanction imposed under
division (E), (F), or (G) of this section or in operating a facility used to
confine offenders pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E) of this
section.
         (c)   The offender shall pay reimbursements imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(c) of this section for the costs incurred by a private provider
pursuant to a sanction imposed under division (E), (F), or (G) of this section
to the provider.
      (4)   (a)   In addition to any other fine that is or may be imposed under
this section, the court imposing sentence upon an offender for misdemeanor
domestic violence or menacing by stalking may impose a fine of not less than
$70 nor more than $500, which shall, except as provided in divisions (G)(4)(b)
and (G)(4)(c) of this section, be transmitted to the Treasurer of Ohio to be
credited to the address confidentiality program fund created by R.C. § 111.48.
         (b)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may retain up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to cover administrative costs.
         (c)   A court that imposes a fine under division (G)(4)(a) of this
section may assign up to 25% of amounts collected in satisfaction of the fine
to reimburse the prosecuting attorney for costs associated with prosecution of
the offense.
      (5)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (G)(5), a
financial sanction imposed under division (G)(1) of this section is a judgment
in favor of the state or the political subdivision that operates the court that
imposed the financial sanction, and the offender subject to the financial
sanction is the judgment debtor. A financial sanction of reimbursement imposed
pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.a. of this section upon an offender is a
judgment in favor of the entity administering the community control sanction,
and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the judgment debtor. A
financial sanction of reimbursement imposed pursuant to division (G)(1)(c)1.b.
of this section upon an offender confined in a jail or other residential
facility is a judgment in favor of the entity operating the jail or other
residential facility, and the offender subject to the financial sanction is the
judgment debtor. A financial sanction of restitution imposed pursuant to
division (G)(1)(a) of this section is an order in favor of the victim of the
offender’s criminal act that can be collected through a certificate of judgment
as described in division (G)(5)(b)1. of this section, through execution as
described in division (G)(5)(b)2. of this section or through an order as
described in division (G)(5)(b)3. of this section and the offender shall be
considered for purposes of the collection as a judgment debtor.
         (b)   Once a financial sanction is imposed as a judgment or order
under this division, the victim, private provider, state, or political
subdivision may do any of the following:
            1.   Obtain from the clerk of the court in which the judgment was
entered, at no charge, a certificate of judgment that shall be in the same
manner and form as a certificate of judgment issued in a civil action;
            2.   Obtain execution of the judgment or order through any
available procedure, including any of the procedures identified in R.C. §
2929.18(D)(1) and (D)(2) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            3.   Obtain an order for the assignment of wages of the judgment
debtor under R.C. § 1321.33 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (6)   The civil remedies authorized under division (G)(5) of this section
for the collection of the financial sanction supplement, but do not preclude,
enforcement of the criminal sentence.
      (7)   Each court imposing a financial sanction upon an offender under
this division (G) may designate the clerk of the court or another person to
collect the financial sanction. The clerk, or another person authorized by law
or the court to collect the financial sanction may do the following:
         (a)   Enter into contracts with one or more public agencies or private
vendors for the collection of amounts due under the sanction. Before entering
into a contract for the collection of amounts due from an offender pursuant to
any financial sanction imposed pursuant to this division (G), a court shall
comply with R.C. §§ 307.86 through 307.92.
         (b)    Permit payment of all or any portion of the sanction in
installments, by financial transaction device if the court is a county court or
a municipal court operated by a county, or by any other reasonable method, in
any time, and on any terms that the court considers just. If the court is a
county court or a municipal court operated by a county, the acceptance of
payments by any financial transaction device shall be governed by the policy
adopted by the board of county commissioners of the county pursuant to R.C. §
301.28. If the court is a municipal court not operated by a county, the clerk
may pay any fee associated with processing an electronic transfer out of public
money or may charge the fee to the offender.
         (c)   To defray administrative costs, charge a reasonable fee to an
offender who elects a payment plan rather than a lump sum payment of any
financial sanction.
      (8)   No financial sanction imposed under this division (G) shall
preclude a victim from bringing a civil action against the offender.
      (9)   If the court imposes restitution, fines, fees or incarceration
costs on a business or corporation, it is the duty of the person authorized to
make disbursements from assets of the business or corporation to pay the
restitution, fines, fees or incarceration costs from those assets.
(R.C. § 2929.28)
   (H)   Organizational penalties.
      (1)   Regardless of the other penalties provided in this section, an
organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09 shall be fined by the court as follows:
         (a)   For a misdemeanor of the first degree, not more than $5,000;
         (b)   For a misdemeanor of the second degree, not more than $4,000;
         (c)   For a misdemeanor of the third degree, not more than $3,000;
         (d)   For a misdemeanor of the fourth degree, not more than $2,000;
         (e)   For a minor misdemeanor, not more than $1,000;
         (f)   For a misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more than
$2,000;
         (g)   For a minor misdemeanor not specifically classified, not more
than $1,000.
      (2)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the section defining the offense or penalty plainly indicates a
purpose to impose the penalty provided for violation upon organizations, then
such penalty shall be imposed in lieu of the penalty provided in this section.
      (3)   When an organization is convicted of an offense not specifically
classified, and the penalty provided includes a higher fine than that provided
in this section, then the penalty imposed shall be pursuant to the penalty
provided for violation of the section defining the offense.
      (4)   This section does not prevent the imposition of available civil
sanctions against an organization convicted of an offense pursuant to §
130.09, either in addition to or in lieu of a fine imposed pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2929.31)
Cross-reference:
   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators; registration,
see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Citation issuance and limitations on arrest for minor misdemeanors, see R.C.
§ 2935.26
   Crime Victim’s Reparations Fund, see R.C. § 2929.32
   Habitual sex offender and sexual predator registration, see R.C. Chapter
2950
   Reimbursement for costs of confinement, see R.C. §§ 2929.36 et seq.
   Reports to health care licensing boards of criminal offenses, see R.C. §
2929.42
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Arson; determining property value or amount of physical harm
   
131.03   Criminal damaging or endangering; vehicular vandalism
   
131.04   Criminal mischief
   
131.05   Damaging or endangering aircraft or airport operations
   
131.06   Criminal trespass; aggravated trespass
   
131.07   Tampering with coin machines
   
131.08   Theft
   
131.09   Unauthorized use of a vehicle
   
131.10   Unauthorized use of property, including telecommunication property and
computers; possession of municipal property
   
131.11   Passing bad checks
   
131.12   Misuse of credit cards
   
131.13   Making or using slugs
   
131.14   Prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud
   
131.15   Tampering with records
   
131.16   Securing writings by deception
   
131.17   Defrauding creditors
   
131.18   Receiving stolen property
   
131.19   Value of stolen property
   
131.20   Degree of offense when certain property involved
   
131.21   Injuring vines, bushes, trees, or crops
   
131.22   Detention and arrest of shoplifters and those committing motion
picture piracy; protection of institutional property
   
131.23   Insurance fraud; workers’ compensation fraud; Medicaid fraud
   
131.24   Injury to property by hunters
   
131.25   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services; evidence of lack of capacity to consent
   
131.26   Forgery of identification cards
   
131.27   Criminal simulation
   
131.28   Personating an officer
   
131.29   Trademark counterfeiting
   
131.30   Diminishing or interfering with forfeitable property
   
131.31   Recording credit card, telephone or Social Security numbers
   
131.32   Prosecutions for theft of utilities
   
131.33   Motion picture piracy
   
131.34   Railroad vandalism; criminal trespass; interference with operation of
train; grade crossing device vandalism
   
131.35   Desecration
Statutory reference:
   Cable television service devices, unauthorized sale or possession, felony,
see R.C. § 2913.041
   Deceptive acts or practices in connection with consumer transactions, see
O.A.C. Chapter 109:4-3
   Disrupting public services, felony, see R.C. § 2909.04
   E-mail advertisements, civil offenses and felony forgery offense, see R.C. §
2307.64
   E-mail spam, civil offenses and felony offenses, see R.C. § 2913.421
   Food stamps, illegal use, see R.C. § 2913.46
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
   Terrorism involving agricultural products or equipment, see R.C. § 901.511
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY SERVICE MEMBER. Any member of the armed forces of the United
States performing active duty under Title 10 of the United States Code.
   ANHYDROUS AMMONIA. A compound formed by the combination of two gaseous
elements, nitrogen and hydrogen, in the manner described below. Anhydrous
ammonia is one part nitrogen to three parts hydrogen (NH3). Anhydrous ammonia
by weight is fourteen parts nitrogen to three parts hydrogen, which is
approximately 82% nitrogen to 18% hydrogen.
   ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE. Any services provided by or through the facilities
of any cable television system or other similar closed circuit coaxial cable
communications system, or any microwave or similar transmission service used in
connection with any cable television system or other similar closed circuit
coaxial cable communications system.
   COIN MACHINE. Any mechanical or electronic device designed to do both of the
following:
      (1)   Receive a coin or bill, or token made for that purpose;
      (2)   In return for the insertion or deposit of a coin, bill, or token,
automatically dispense property, provide a service, or grant a license.
   COMPUTER. An electronic device that performs logical, arithmetic, and memory
functions by the manipulation of electronic or magnetic impulses. The term
includes but is not limited to all input, output, processing, storage, computer
program, or communication facilities that are connected, or related, in a
computer system or network to an electronic device of that nature.
   COMPUTER CONTAMINANT. Means a computer program that is designed to modify,
damage, destroy, disable, deny or degrade access to, allow unauthorized access
to, functionally impair, record, or transmit information within a computer,
computer system, or computer network without the express or implied consent of
the owner or other person authorized to give consent and that is of a type or
kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition or of a type or
kind similar to a type or kind described in divisions (1) through (4) of this
definition:
      (1)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “viruses” and
“worms” that are self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed to
contaminate other computer programs, compromise computer security, consume
computer resources, modify, destroy, record, or transmit data, or disrupt the
normal operation of the computer, computer system, or computer network;
      (2)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “Trojans” or “Trojan
horses” that are not self-replicating or self-propagating and that are designed
to compromise computer security, consume computer resources, modify, destroy,
record, or transmit data, or disrupt the normal operation of the computer,
computer system, or computer network;
      (3)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “zombies” that are
designed to use a computer without the knowledge and consent of the owner, or
other person authorized to give consent, and that are designed to send large
quantities of data to a targeted computer network for the purpose of degrading
the targeted computer’s or network’s performance, or denying access through the
network to the targeted computer or network, resulting in what is commonly
known as “denial of service” or “distributed denial of service” attacks;
      (4)   A group of computer programs commonly known as “trap doors”, “back
doors”, or “root kits” that are designed to bypass standard authentication
software and that are designed to allow access or use of a computer without the
knowledge or consent of the owner, or other person authorized to give consent.
   COMPUTER HACKING.
      (1)   The term means any of the following:
         (a)   Gaining access or attempting to gain access to all or part of a
computer, computer system, or a computer network without express or implied
authorization with the intent to defraud or with intent to commit a crime;
         (b)   Misusing computer or network services including but not limited
to mail transfer programs, file transfer programs, proxy servers, and web
servers by performing functions not authorized by the owner of the computer,
computer system, or computer network or other person authorized to give
consent. As used in this division, “misuse of computer and network services”
includes but is not limited to the unauthorized use of any of the following:
            1.   Mail transfer programs to send mail to persons other than the
authorized users of that computer or computer network;
            2.   File transfer program services or proxy servers to access
other computers, computer systems, or computer networks;
            3.   Web servers to redirect users to other web pages or web
servers.
         (c)   1.   Subject to division (1)(c)2. of this definition, using a
group of computer programs commonly known as “port scanners” or “probes” to
intentionally access any computer, computer system, or computer network without
the permission of the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer
network or other person authorized to give consent. The group of computer
programs referred to in this division includes but is not limited to those
computer programs that use a computer network to access a computer, computer
system, or another computer network to determine any of the following: the
presence or types of computers or computer systems on a network; the computer
network’s facilities and capabilities; the availability of computer or network
services; the presence or versions of computer software including but not
limited to operating systems, computer services, or computer contaminants; the
presence of a known computer software deficiency that can be used to gain
unauthorized access to a computer, computer system, or computer network; or any
other information about a computer, computer system, or computer network not
necessary for the normal and lawful operation of the computer initiating the
access.
            2.   The group of computer programs referred to in division (1)
(c)1. of this definition does not include standard computer software used for
the normal operation, administration, management, and test of a computer,
computer system, or computer network including but not limited to domain name
services, mail transfer services, and other operating system services, computer
programs commonly called “ping”, “tcpdump”, and “traceroute” and other network
monitoring and management computer software, and computer programs commonly
knows as “nslookup” and “whois” and other systems administration computer
software.
         (d)   The intentional use of a computer, computer system, or a
computer network in a manner that exceeds any right or permission granted by
the owner of the computer, computer system, or computer network or other person
authorized to give consent.
      (2)   The term does not include the introduction of a computer
contaminant, as defined in this section, into a computer, computer system,
computer program, or computer network.
   COMPUTER NETWORK. A set of related and remotely-connected computers and
communication facilities that includes more than one computer system that has
the capability to transmit among the connected computers and communication
facilities through the use of computer facilities.
   COMPUTER PROGRAM. An ordered set of data representing coded instructions or
statements that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to process
data.
   COMPUTER SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to the use of a computer
system, computer network, computer program, data that is prepared for computer
use, or data that is contained within a computer system or computer network.
   COMPUTER SOFTWARE. Computer programs, procedures, and other documentation
associated with the operation of a computer system.
   COMPUTER SYSTEM. A computer and related devices, whether connected or
unconnected, including but not limited to data input, output, and storage
devices, data communications links, and computer programs and data that make
the system capable of performing specified special purpose data processing
tasks.
   COUNTERFEIT TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. A telecommunications device that,
alone or with another telecommunications device, has been altered, constructed,
manufactured, or programmed to acquire, intercept, receive, or otherwise
facilitate the use of a telecommunications service or information service
without the authority or consent of the provider of the telecommunications
service or information service. The phrase includes but is not limited to a
clone telephone, clone microchip, tumbler telephone, or tumbler microchip; a
wireless scanning device capable of acquiring, intercepting, receiving, or
otherwise facilitating the use of telecommunications service or information
service without immediate detection; or a device, equipment, hardware, or
software designed for, or capable of, altering or changing the electronic
serial number in a wireless telephone.
   CREATE A SUBSTANTIAL RISK OF SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM TO ANY PERSON. Includes
the creation of a substantial risk of serious physical harm to any emergency
personnel.
   CREDIT CARD. Includes but is not limited to a card, code, device, or other
means of access to a customer’s account for the purpose of obtaining money,
property, labor, or services on credit, or for initiating an electronic fund
transfer at a point-of-sale terminal, an automated teller machine, or a cash
dispensing machine. It also includes a county procurement card issued under
R.C. § 301.29.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   DATA. A representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts, or
instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner and
that are intended for use in a computer, computer system, or computer network.
   DECEPTION. To knowingly deceive another or cause another to be deceived by
any false or misleading representation, by withholding information, by
preventing another from acquiring information, or by any other conduct, act, or
omission that creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression in another,
including a false impression as to law, value, state of mind, or other
objective or subjective fact.
   DEFRAUD. To knowingly obtain, by deception, some benefit for oneself or
another, or to knowingly cause, by deception, some detriment to another.
   DEPRIVE. To do any of the following:
      (1)   To withhold property of another permanently, or for a period that
appropriates a substantial portion of its value or use, or with purpose to
restore it only upon payment of a reward or other consideration;
      (2)   To dispose of property so as to make it unlikely that the owner
will recover it;
      (3)   To accept, use, or appropriate money, property, or services, with
purpose not to give proper consideration in return for the money, property, or
services, and without reasonable justification or excuse for not giving proper
consideration.
   DISABLED ADULT. A person who is 18 years of age or older and has some
impairment of body or mind that makes the person unable to work at any
substantially remunerative employment that the person otherwise would be able
to perform and that will, with reasonable probability, continue for a period of
at least 12 months without any present indication of recovery from the
impairment, or who is 18 years of age or older and has been certified as
permanently and totally disabled by an agency of this state or the United
States that has the function of so classifying persons.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2925.01.
   ELDERLY PERSON. A person who is 65 years of age or older.
   ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFER. Has the same meaning as in 92 Stat. 3728, 15
U.S.C. § 1693a, as amended.
   EMERGENCY PERSONNEL. Means any of the following persons:
      (1)   A peace officer, as defined in R.C. § 2935.01;
      (2)   A member of a fire department or other firefighting agency of a
municipal corporation, township, township fire district, joint fire district,
other political subdivision, or combination of political subdivisions;
      (3)   A member of a private fire company, as defined in R.C. § 9.60, or a
volunteer firefighter;
      (4)    A member of a joint ambulance district or joint emergency medical
services district;
      (5)   An emergency medical technician-basic, emergency medical
technician- intermediate, emergency medical technician-paramedic, ambulance
operator, or other member of an emergency medical service that is owned or
operated by a political subdivision or a private entity;
      (6)   The State Fire Marshal, the Chief Deputy State Fire Marshal, or an
assistant state fire marshal;
      (7)   A fire prevention officer of a political subdivision or an arson,
fire, or similar investigator of a political subdivision.
   FEDERALLY-LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
   FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
   FORGE. To fabricate or create, in whole or in part and by any means, any
spurious writing, or to make, execute, alter, complete, reproduce, or otherwise
purport to authenticate any writing, when the writing in fact is not
authenticated by that conduct.
   GAIN ACCESS. To approach, instruct, communicate with, store data in,
retrieve data from, or otherwise make use of any resources of a computer,
computer system, or computer network, or any cable service or cable system both
as defined in R.C. § 2913.04.
   INFORMATION SERVICE.
      (1)   Subject to division (2) of this definition, the offering of a
capability for generating, acquiring, storing, transforming, processing,
retrieving, utilizing, or making available information via telecommunications,
including but not limited to electronic publishing.
      (2)   The term does not include any use of a capability of a type
described in division (1) of this definition for the management, control, or
operation of a telecommunications system or the management of a
telecommunications service.
   INTERNET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 341.42.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Means any house, building, outbuilding, watercraft,
aircraft, railroad car, truck, trailer, tent, or other structure, vehicle, or
shelter, or any portion thereof, to which any of the following applies:
      (1)   It is maintained as a permanent or temporary dwelling, even though
it is temporarily unoccupied and whether nor not any person is actually
present;
      (2)   At the time, it is occupied as the permanent or temporary
habitation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (3)   At the time, it is specially adapted for the overnight
accommodation of any person, whether or not any person is actually present;
      (4)   At the time, any person is present or likely to be present in it.
   OWNER. Unless the context requires a different meaning, any person, other
than the actor, who is the owner of, who has possession or control of, or who
has any license or interest in property or services, even though the ownership,
possession, control, license, or interest is unlawful.
   POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.321.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   RENTED PROPERTY. Personal property in which the right of possession and use
of the property is for a short and possibly indeterminate term in return for
consideration; the rentee generally controls the duration of possession of the
property within any applicable minimum or maximum term; and the amount of
consideration is generally determined by the duration of possession of the
property.
   SERVICES. Includes labor, personal services, professional services, rental
services, public utility services including wireless service as defined in R.C.
§ 128.01(F)(1), common carrier services, and food, drink, transportation,
entertainment, and cable television services and, for purposes of R.C. §
2913.04 or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, includes cable
services as defined in that section.
   SLUG. An object that, by virtue of its size, shape, composition, or other
quality, is capable of being inserted or deposited in a coin machine as an
improper substitute for a genuine coin, bill, or token made for that purpose.
   STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2744.01.
   TELECOMMUNICATION. The origination, emission, dissemination, transmission,
or reception of data, images, signals, sounds, or other intelligence or
equivalence or intelligence of any nature over any communications system by any
method, including but not limited to a fiber optic, electronic, magnetic,
optical, digital or analog method.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Any instrument, equipment, machine, or other
device that facilitates telecommunication, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer chip, computer circuit, scanner,
telephone, cellular telephone, pager, personal communications device,
transponder, receiver, radio, modem, or device that enables the use of a modem.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The providing, allowing, facilitating, or
generating of any form of telecommunication through the use of a
telecommunications device over a telecommunications system.
   THEFT OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2911.01, 2911.02, 2911.11, 2911.12, 2911.13,
2911.31, 2911.32, 2913.02, 2913.03, 2913.04, 2913.041, 2913.11, 2913.21,
2913.31, 2913.32, 2913.33, 2913.34, 2913.40, 2913.42, 2913.43, 2913.44,
2913.45, 2913.47, 2913.48, former R.C. § 2913.47 or 2913.48, or R.C. § 2913.51,
2915.05, or 2921.41;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
section listed in division (1) of this definition, or a violation of R.C. §
2913.41, 2913.81 or 2915.06 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or the United States involving robbery, burglary,
breaking and entering, theft, embezzlement, wrongful conversion, forgery,
counterfeiting, deceit, or fraud;
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing any offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   UTTER. To issue, publish, transfer, use, put or send into circulation,
deliver, or display.
   WRITING. Any computer software, document, letter, memorandum, note, paper,
plate, data, film, or other thing having in or upon it any written, type-
written, or printed matter, and any token, stamp, seal, credit card, badge,
trademark, label, or other symbol of value, right, privilege, license, or
identification.
(R.C. §§ 2909.01, 2913.01)
§ 131.02 ARSON; DETERMINING PROPERTY VALUE OR AMOUNT OF PHYSICAL HARM.
   (A)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of another without the other person’s consent;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
property of the offender or another, with purpose to defraud;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to the
statehouse or a courthouse, school building, or other building or structure
that is owned or controlled by the state, any political subdivision, or any
department, agency, or instrumentality of the state or a political subdivision,
and that is used for public purposes;
      (4)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
property of another without the other person’s consent or to any property of
the offender or another with purpose to defraud;
      (5)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision without the consent of
the other person, the state, or the political subdivision;
      (6)   With purpose to defraud, cause, or create a substantial risk of,
physical harm to any park, preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over
land, forest, timberland, greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is
owned or controlled by the offender, another person, the state, or a political
subdivision.
   (B)   No person, by means of fire or explosion, shall knowingly do any of
the following:
      (1)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (2)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm, through the
offer or the acceptance of an agreement for hire or other consideration, to any
structure of another that is not an occupied structure;
      (3)   Cause, or create a substantial risk of, physical harm to any
structure that is not an occupied structure and that is in or on any park,
preserve, wildlands, brush-covered land, cut-over land, forest, timberland,
greenlands, woods, or similar real property that is owned or controlled by
another person, the state, or a political subdivision.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1)
or (B)(2) of this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the
other person.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(3) of
this section that the defendant acted with the consent of the other person, the
state, or the political subdivision.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of arson.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1) or (B)(1) of this section is one of
the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the property or the amount of the physical harm
involved is $1,000 or more, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A violation of division (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)(5), (A)(6), (B)
(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.03)
   (E)   Determining property value or amount of physical harm.
      (1)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or amount of physical harm involved in a violation of division (A)(1)
or (B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   If the property is an heirloom, memento, collector’s item,
antique, museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that is
either irreplaceable or is replaceable only on the expenditure of substantial
time, effort, or money, the value of the property or the amount of physical
harm involved is the amount that would compensate the owner for its loss.
         (b)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property can be restored
substantially to its former condition, the amount of physical harm involved is
the reasonable cost of restoring the property.
         (c)   If the property is not covered under division (B)(1)(a) of this
section, and the physical harm is such that the property cannot be restored
substantially to its former condition, the value of the property, in the case
of personal property, is the cost of replacing the property with new property
of like kind and quality, and in the case of real property or real property
fixtures, is the difference in the fair market value of the property
immediately before and immediately after the offense.
      (2)   As used in this section, FAIR MARKET VALUE has the same meaning as
in R.C. § 2913.61.
      (3)   Prima facie evidence of the value of property, as provided in R.C.
§ 2913.61(D), may be used to establish the value of property pursuant to this
section.
(R.C. § 2909.11(B) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated arson, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.02
   Arson offender registration, see R.C. §§ 2909.13, 2909.14 and 2909.15
   Convicted arsonist to make restitution to public agency, see R.C. § 2929.71
§ 131.03 CRIMINAL DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING; VEHICULAR VANDALISM.
   (A)   Criminal damaging or endangering.
      (1)   No person shall cause or create a substantial risk of physical harm
to any property of another without the other person’s consent:
         (a)   Knowingly, by any means; or
         (b)   Recklessly, by means of fire, explosion, flood, poison gas,
poison, radioactive material, caustic or corrosive material, or other
inherently dangerous agency or substance.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of criminal damaging
or endangering, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If violation of this
division (A) creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging
or endangering is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the property involved
in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft engine,
propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement used or
intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, criminal damaging or endangering
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the property
involved in a violation of this division (A) is an aircraft, an aircraft
engine, propeller, appliance, spare part, or any other equipment or implement
used or intended to be used in the operation of an aircraft and if the
violation creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or if the
property involved in a violation of this division (A) is an occupied aircraft,
criminal damaging or endangering is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2909.06)
   (B)   Vehicular vandalism.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         ALLEY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         HIGHWAY. Means any highway as defined in R.C. § 4511.01 or any lane,
road, street, alley, bridge, or overpass.
         STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
         VESSEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
         WATERS IN THIS STATE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1546.01.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any
object at, onto, or in the path of any of the following:
         (a)   Any vehicle on a highway;
         (b)   Any boat or vessel on any of the waters in this state.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of vehicular
vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(3), vehicular
vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of this
division (B) creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person or the
violation of this division (B) causes serious physical harm to property,
vehicular vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
If the violation of this division (B) causes physical harm to any person or
serious physical harm to any person, vehicular vandalism is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.09)
Statutory reference:
   Disrupting public services, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.04
   Vandalism, felony offense, see R.C. § 2909.05
§ 131.04 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with the either of the following:
         (a)   The property of another;
         (b)   One’s own residential real property with the purpose to decrease
the value of or enjoyment of the residential real property, if both of the
following apply:
            1.   The residential real property is subject to a mortgage.
            2.   The person has been served with a summons and complaint in a
pending residential mortgage loan foreclosure action relating to that real
property. As used in this division, “pending” includes the time between
judgment entry and confirmation of sale.
      (2)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of property of
another, employ a tear gas device, stink bomb, smoke generator, or other device
releasing a substance that is harmful or offensive to persons exposed, or that
tends to cause public alarm;
      (3)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with a bench mark, triangulation
station, boundary marker, or other survey station, monument, or marker;
      (4)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly move, deface, damage,
destroy, or otherwise improperly tamper with any safety device, the property of
another, or the property of the offender when required or placed for the safety
of others, so as to destroy or diminish its effectiveness or availability for
its intended purpose;
      (5)   With purpose to interfere with the use or enjoyment of the property
of another, set a fire on the land of another or place personal property that
has been set on fire on the land of another, which fire or personal property is
outside and apart from any building, other structure, or personal property that
is on that land;
      (6)   Without privilege to do so, and with intent to impair the
functioning of any computer, computer system, computer network, computer
software, or computer program, knowingly do any of the following:
         (a)   In any manner or by any means, including but not limited to
computer hacking, alter, damage, destroy, or modify a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program or data
contained in a computer, computer system, computer network, computer software,
or computer program;
         (b)   Introduce a computer contaminant into a computer, computer
system, computer network, computer software, or computer program.
      (7)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly destroy or improperly tamper
with a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      IMPROPERLY TAMPER. Means to change the physical location or the physical
condition of the property.
      SAFETY DEVICE. Means any fire extinguisher, fire hose, or fire axe, or
any fire escape, emergency exit, or emergency escape equipment, or any life
line, life-saving ring, life preserver, or life boat or raft, or any alarm,
light, flare, signal, sign, or notice intended to warn of danger or emergency,
or intended for other safety purposes, or any guard railing or safety
barricade, or any traffic sign or signal, or any railroad grade crossing sign,
signal, or gate, or any first aid or survival equipment, or any other device,
apparatus, or equipment intended for protecting or preserving the safety of
persons or property.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal mischief,
and shall be punished as provided in division (C)(2), (C)(3), or (C)(4) of this
section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, if the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section creates a risk of physical harm to any person,
criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3),
(A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
property involved in the violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
or (A)(5) of this section is an aircraft, an aircraft engine, propeller,
appliance, spare part, fuel, lubricant, hydraulic fluid, any other equipment,
implement, or material used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft, or any cargo carried or intended to be carried in an aircraft and if
the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or if the
aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief committed in
violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) of this section or the loss to the victim resulting from the
violation is $1,000 or more, or if the computer, computer system, computer
network, computer software, computer program, or data involved in the violation
of division (A)(6) is used or intended to be used in the operation of an
aircraft and the violation creates any risk of physical harm to any person, or
if the aircraft in question is an occupied aircraft, criminal mischief
committed in violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Criminal mischief committed in violation of division (A)(7) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.07)
§ 131.05 DAMAGING OR ENDANGERING AIRCRAFT OR AIRPORT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AIR GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels its projectile by
means of releasing compressed air, carbon dioxide, or other gas.
      AIRPORT OPERATIONAL SURFACE. Means any surface of land or water that is
developed, posted, or marked so as to give an observer reasonable notice that
the surface is designed and developed for the purpose of storing, parking,
taxiing, or operating aircraft, or any surface of land or water that is
actually being used for any of those purposes.
      FIREARM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2923.11.
      SPRING-OPERATED GUN. Means a hand pistol or rifle that propels a
projectile not less than four or more than five millimeters in diameter by
means of a spring.
   (B)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly throw an object at, or drop an object upon, any moving
aircraft.
      (2)   Knowingly shoot with a bow and arrow, or knowingly discharge a
firearm, air gun, or spring-operated gun, at or toward any aircraft.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly or recklessly shoot with a bow and arrow, or
shall knowingly or recklessly discharge a firearm, air gun, or spring-operated
gun, upon or over any airport operational surface. This division does not apply
to the following:
      (1)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or of the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, authorized to discharge firearms
and acting within the scope of his or her duties.
      (2)   A person who, with the consent of the owner or operator of the
airport operational surface or the authorized agent of either, is lawfully
engaged in any hunting or sporting activity or is otherwise lawfully
discharging a firearm.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of endangering
aircraft, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation creates any risk
of physical harm to any person, or if the aircraft that is the subject of the
violation is occupied, endangering aircraft is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of endangering
airport operations, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the violation
creates a risk of physical harm to any person or substantial risk of serious
harm to any person, endangering airport operations is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. In addition to any other penalty or sanction
imposed for the violation, the hunting license or permit of a person who
violates division (C) of this section while hunting shall be suspended or
revoked pursuant to R.C. § 1533.68.
(R.C. § 2909.08(A) - (E))
§ 131.06 CRIMINAL TRESPASS; AGGRAVATED TRESPASS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another;
      (2)   Knowingly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, the
use of which is lawfully restricted to certain persons, purposes, modes, or
hours, when the offender knows the offender is in violation of any such
restriction or is reckless in that regard;
      (3)   Recklessly enter or remain on the land or premises of another, as
to which notice against unauthorized access or presence is given by actual
communication to the offender, or in a manner prescribed by law, or by posting
in a manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential
intruders, or by fencing or other enclosure manifestly designed to restrict
access;
      (4)   Being on the land or premises of another, negligently fail or
refuse to leave upon being notified by signage posted in a conspicuous place or
otherwise being notified to do so by the owner or occupant, or the agent or
servant of either;
      (5)   Knowingly enter or remain on a critical infrastructure facility.
   (B)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the land or
premises involved was owned, controlled, or in custody of a public agency.
   (C)   It is no defense to a charge under this section that the offender was
authorized to enter or remain on the land or premises involved, when the
authorization was secured by deception.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal trespass.
Criminal trespass in violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), or (A)(4) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Criminal trespass in
violation of division (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 2929.28, if the person, in committing the
violation of this section, used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-
purpose vehicle, the court shall impose a fine of two times the usual amount
imposed for the violation.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to two or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2911.21 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, and the offender, in committing each violation,
used a snowmobile, off-highway motorcycle, or all-purpose vehicle, the court,
in addition to or independent of all other penalties imposed for the violation,
may impound the certificate of registration of that snowmobile or off-highway
motorcycle or the certificate of registration and license plate of that all-
purpose vehicle for not less than 60 days. In such a case, R.C. § 4519.47
applies.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Ohio Revised Code, if the
offender, in committing the violation of this section, used an all-purpose
vehicle, the Clerk of the Court shall pay the fine imposed pursuant to this
section to the State Recreational Vehicle Fund created by R.C. § 4519.11.
   (F)   As used in divisions (A) through (E) of this section:
      ALL-PURPOSE VEHICLE, OFF-HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE, and SNOWMOBILE. Have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4519.01.
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Means:
         (a)   One of the following, if completely enclosed by a fence or other
physical barrier that is obviously designed to exclude intruders, or if clearly
marked with signs that are reasonably likely to come to the attention of
potential intruders and that indicate entry is forbidden without site
authorization:
            1.   A petroleum or alumina refinery;
            2.   An electric generating facility, substation, switching
station, electrical control center, or electric transmission and distribution
lines and associated equipment;
            3.   A chemical, polymer, or rubber manufacturing facility;
            4.   A water intake structure, water treatment facility, waste
water facility, drainage facility, water management facility, or any similar
water or sewage treatment system and its water and sewage piping;
            5.   A natural gas company facility or interstate natural gas
pipeline, including a pipeline interconnection, a natural gas compressor
station and associated facilities, city gate or town border station, metering
station, above-ground piping, regulator station, valve site, delivery station,
fabricated assembly, or any other part of a natural gas storage facility
involved in the gathering, storage, transmission, or distribution of gas;
            6.   A telecommunications central switching office or remote
switching facility or an equivalent network facility that serves a similar
purpose;
            7.   Wireline or wireless telecommunications infrastructure,
including telecommunications towers and telephone poles and lines, including
fiber optic lines;
            8.   A port, trucking terminal, or other freight transportation
facility;
            9.   A gas processing plant, including a plant used in the
processing, treatment, or fractionation of natural gas or natural gas liquids;
            10.   A transmission facility used by a federally licensed radio or
television station;
            11.   A steel-making facility that uses an electric arc furnace to
make steel;
            12.   A facility identified and regulated by the United States
Department of Homeland Security’s Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program under 6 C.F.R. part 27;
            13.   A dam that is regulated by the state or federal government;
            14.   A crude oil or refined products storage and distribution
facility, including valve sites, pipeline interconnections, pump station,
metering station, below- or above-ground pipeline, or piping and truck loading
or off-loading facility;
            15.   A video service network and broadband infrastructure,
including associated buildings and facilities, video service headends, towers,
utility poles, and utility lines such as fiber optic lines. As used in this
division, “video service network” has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
            16.   Any above-ground portion of an oil, gas, hazardous liquid or
chemical pipeline, tank, or other storage facility;
            17.   Any above-ground portion of a well, well pad, or production
operation;
            18.   A laydown area or construction site for pipe and other
equipment intended for use on an interstate or intrastate natural gas or crude
oil pipeline;
            19.   Any mining operation, including any processing equipment,
batching operation, or support facility for that mining operation.
         (b)   With respect to a video service network or broadband or wireless
telecommunications infrastructure, the above-ground portion of a facility
installed in a public right-of- way on a utility pole or in a conduit;
         (c)   Any railroad property;
         (d)   An electronic asset of any of the following:
            1.   An electric light company that is a public utility under R.C.
§ 4905.02;
            2.   An electric cooperative, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            3.   A municipal electric utility, as defined in R.C. § 4928.01;
            4.   A natural gas company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            5.   A telephone company that is a public utility under R.C. §
4905.02;
            6.   A video service provider, including a cable operator, as those
terms are defined in R.C. § 1332.21.
      ELECTRONIC ASSET. Includes, but is not limited to, the hardware,
software, and data of a programmable electronic device; all communications,
operations, and customer data networks; and the contents of those data
networks.
      LAND or PREMISES. Includes any land, building, structure, or place
belonging to, controlled by, or in custody of another, and any separate
enclosure or room, or portion thereof.
      PRODUCTION OPERATION, WELL, and WELL PAD. Have the same meanings as in
R.C. § 1509.01.
(R.C. § 2911.21)
   (G)   Aggravated trespass.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall enter or remain on the land or premises of
another with purpose to commit on that land or those premises a misdemeanor,
the elements of which involve causing physical harm to another person or
causing another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
that person.
         (b)   No person shall enter or remain on a critical infrastructure
facility with purpose to destroy or tamper with the facility.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of aggravated trespass.
Aggravated trespass in violation of division (G)(1)(a) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Aggravated trespass in violation of division
(G)(1)(b) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   As used in this division (G), CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY has
the same meaning as in R.C. § 2911.21.
(R.C. § 2911.211)
   (H)   Criminal trespass on a place of public amusement.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), PLACE OF PUBLIC AMUSEMENT means a
stadium, theater, or other facility, whether licensed or not, at which a live
performance, sporting event, or other activity takes place for entertainment of
the public and to which access is made available to the public, regardless of
whether admission is charged.
      (2)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly enter or
remain on any restricted portion of a place of public amusement and, as a
result of that conduct, interrupt or cause the delay of the live performance,
sporting event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement
after a printed written notice has been given as provided in division (H)(4)(a)
of this section that the general public is restricted from access to that
restricted portion of the place of public amusement. A restricted portion of a
place of public amusement may include but is not limited to a playing field, an
athletic surface, or a stage located at the place of public amusement.
      (3)   An owner or lessee of a place of public amusement, an agent of the
owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a place of public amusement
may use reasonable force to restrain and remove a person from a restricted
portion of the place of public amusement if the person enters or remains on the
restricted portion of the place of public amusement and, as a result of that
conduct, interrupts or causes the delay of the live performance, sporting
event, or other activity taking place at the place of public amusement. This
division does not provide immunity from criminal liability for any use of force
beyond reasonable force by an owner or lessee of a place of public amusement,
an agent of either the owner or lessee, or a performer or participant at a
place of public amusement.
      (4)   (a)   Notice has been given that the general public is restricted
from access to a portion of a place of public amusement if a printed written
notice of the restricted access has been conspicuously posted or exhibited at
the entrance to that portion of the place of public amusement. If a printed
written notice is posted or exhibited as described in this division regarding a
portion of a place of public amusement, in addition to that posting or
exhibition, notice that the general public is restricted from access to that
portion of the place of public amusement also may be given, but is not required
to be given, by either of the following means:
            1.   By notifying the person personally, either orally or in
writing, that access to that portion of the place of public amusement is
restricted;
            2.   By broadcasting over the public address system of the place of
public amusement an oral warning that access to that portion of the place of
public amusement is restricted.
         (b)   If notice that the general public is restricted from access to a
portion of a place of public amusement is provided by the posting or exhibition
of a printed written notice as described in division (H)(4)(a) of this section,
the municipality, in a criminal prosecution for a violation of division (H)(2)
of this section, is not required to prove that the defendant received actual
notice that the general public is restricted from access to a portion of a
place of public amusement.
      (5)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(2) of this section is guilty of
criminal trespass on a place of public amusement, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
         (b)   In addition to any jail term, fine, or other sentence, penalty,
or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to division (H)(5)(a) of this
section, a court may require an offender who violates this section to perform
not less than 30 and not more than 120 hours of supervised community service
work.
(R.C. § 2911.23)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
§ 131.07 TAMPERING WITH COIN MACHINES.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to commit theft or to defraud, shall knowingly
enter, force an entrance into, tamper with, or insert any part of an instrument
into any coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with coin
machines, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of this section or of any theft offense as
defined in R.C. § 2913.01, tampering with coin machines is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2911.32)
§ 131.08 THEFT.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to deprive the owner of property or services,
shall knowingly obtain or exert control over either the property or services in
any of the following ways:
      (1)   Without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give
consent;
      (2)   Beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent;
      (3)   By deception;
      (4)   By threat;
      (5)   By intimidation.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of theft. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, a violation of this section is misdemeanor theft, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   If the value of the property or services is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   If the property stolen is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person, disabled adult,
active duty service member, or spouse of an active duty service member;
      (4)   If the property stolen is a firearm or dangerous ordnance;
      (5)   If the property stolen is a motor vehicle;
      (6)   If the property stolen is any dangerous drug, or if the offender
previously has been convicted of a felony drug abuse offense;
      (7)   If the property stolen is a police dog or horse or an assistance
dog and the offender knows or should know that the property stolen is a police
dog or horse or an assistance dog;
      (8)   If the property stolen is anhydrous ammonia; or
      (9)    If the property stolen is a special purchase article as defined in
R.C. § 4737.04 or is a bulk merchandise container as defined in R.C. §
4737.012.
   (C)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by causing a motor vehicle to
leave the premises of an establishment at which gasoline is offered for retail
sale without the offender making full payment for gasoline that was dispensed
into the fuel tank of the motor vehicle or into another container, the court
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Unless division (C)(2) of this section applies, suspend for not
more than six months the offenders driver’s license, probationary driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or
nonresident operating privilege;
      (2)   If the offender’s driver’s license, probationary driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, or nonresident
operating privilege has previously been suspended pursuant to division (C)(1)
of this section, or any other substantially equivalent state or local law,
impose a class seven suspension of the offender’s license, permit, or privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7), provided that the suspension
shall be at least six months;
      (3)   The court, in lieu of suspending the offender’s driver’s or
commercial driver’s license, probationary driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, or nonresident operating privilege pursuant to division (C)
(1) or (C)(2) of this section, instead may require the offender to perform
community service for a number of hours determined by the court.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B) of this
section, if the offender committed the violation by stealing rented property or
rental services, the court may order that the offender make restitution
pursuant to R.C. § 2929.18 or R.C. § 2929.28. Restitution may include, but is
not limited to, the cost of repairing or replacing the stolen property, or the
cost of repairing the stolen property and any loss of revenue resulting from
deprivation of the property due to theft of rental services that is less than
or equal to the actual value of the property at the time it was rented.
Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental services shall
be determined pursuant to the provisions of R.C. § 2913.72.
   (E)   The sentencing court that suspends an offender’s license, permit, or
nonresident operating privilege under division (C) of this section may grant
the offender limited driving privileges during the period of the suspension in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 4510.
(R.C. § 2913.02)
Statutory reference:
   Felony theft provisions, see R.C. § 2913.02(B)
§ 131.09 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of
the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use or operate an aircraft, motor vehicle,
motorboat, or other motor-propelled vehicle without the consent of the owner or
person authorized to give consent, and either remove it from this state, or
keep possession of it for more than 48 hours.
   (C)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section:
      (1)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor, though mistaken,
reasonably believed that he or she was authorized to use or operate the
property.
      (2)   At the time of the alleged offense, the actor reasonably believed
that the owner or person empowered to give consent would authorize the actor to
use or operate the property.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unauthorized use of a
vehicle.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D)(1), a violation
of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled adult and if the victim
incurs a loss as a result of the violation, a violation of division (A) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.03)
Statutory reference:
   Theft offense involving a motor vehicle, offender to pay towing and storage
fees, see R.C. § 2913.82
§ 131.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PROPERTY, INCLUDING TELECOMMUNICATION PROPERTY AND
COMPUTERS; POSSESSION OF MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly use or operate the property of another
without the consent of the owner or person authorized to give consent.
   (B)   No person, in any manner and by any means, including but not limited
to computer hacking, shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
or cause access to be gained to any computer, computer system, computer
network, cable service, cable system, telecommunications device,
telecommunications service, or information service without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the owner of the
computer, computer system, computer network, cable service, cable system,
telecommunications device, telecommunications service, or information service
or other person authorized to give consent.
   (C)   Except as permitted under R.C. § 5503.101, no person shall knowingly
gain access to, attempt to gain access to, cause access to be granted to, or
disseminate information gained from access to the law enforcement automated
database system created pursuant to R.C. § 5503.10 without the consent of, or
beyond the scope of the express or implied consent of, the chair of the Law
Enforcement Automated Data System Steering Committee.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly gain access to, attempt to gain access to,
cause access to be granted to, or disseminate information gained from access to
the Ohio law enforcement gateway established and operated pursuant to R.C. §
109.57(C)(1) without the consent of, or beyond the scope of the express or
implied consent of, the Superintendent of the Bureau of Criminal Identification
and Investigation.
   (E)   The affirmative defenses contained in R.C. § 2913.03(C) are
affirmative defenses to a charge under this section.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of property. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
unauthorized use of property is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (1)   If unauthorized use of property is committed for the purpose of
devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to obtain property or services,
unauthorized use of property is whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, unauthorized use of property
is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the value of the property or services or the loss to the
victim is $1,000 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (2)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, unauthorized use of property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of computer, cable, or telecommunication property, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (H)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the law enforcement automated database system, a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
unauthorized use of the Ohio law enforcement gateway, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
   (J)   As used in this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Means any person or group of persons that does either of
the following:
         (a)   Provides cable service over a cable system and directly through
one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in that cable system;
         (b)   Otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of a cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
of information that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, that is required for the
selection or use of video programming or of information that a cable operator
makes available to all subscribers generally, both as described in division (a)
of this definition;
         (c)   Any cable television service.
      CABLE SYSTEM. Means any facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide cable service that includes video
programming and that is provided to multiple subscribers within a community.
The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any facility that serves only to retransmit the television
signals of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   Any facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way;
         (c)   Any facility of a common carrier that, under 47 U.S.C. § 522(7)
(c), is excluded from the term “cable system” as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 522(7);
         (d)   Any open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573;
         (e)   Any facility of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
(R.C. § 2913.04)
   (K)   Possession of municipal property.
      (1)   No person shall, without being authorized, have in his or her
control or possession any equipment, tools, implements or other property
belonging to the municipality.
(R.C. § 5589.12)
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (K) is guilty of a minor
misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 5589.99(B))
Statutory reference:
   Telecommunications: fraud and unlawful use of a device, felony offenses, see
R.C. §§ 2913.05 and 2913.06
§ 131.11 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CHECK. Includes any form of debit from a demand deposit account,
including but not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   A check, bill of exchange, draft, order of withdrawal, or
similar negotiable or non-negotiable instrument;
         (b)   An electronic check, electronic transaction, debit card
transaction, check card transaction, substitute check, web check, or any form
of automated clearing house transaction.
      ISSUE A CHECK. Means causing any form of debit from a demand deposit
account.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall issue or transfer or cause
to be issued or transferred a check or other negotiable instrument, knowing
that it will be dishonored or knowing that a person has ordered or will order
stop payment on the check or other negotiable instrument.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a person who issues or transfers a check
or other negotiable instrument is presumed to know that it will be dishonored
if either of the following occurs:
      (1)   The drawer has no account with the drawee at the time of issue or
the stated date, whichever is later.
      (2)   The check or other negotiable instrument was properly refused
payment for insufficient funds upon presentment within 30 days after issue or
the stated date, whichever is later, and the liability of the drawer, indorser,
or any party who may be liable thereon is not discharged by payment or
satisfaction within ten days after receiving notice of dishonor.
   (D)   In determining the value of the payment for purposes of division (E)
of this section, the court may aggregate all checks and other negotiable
instruments that the offender issued or transferred or caused to be issued or
transferred in violation of division (B) of this section within a period of 180
consecutive days.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of passing bad checks. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, passing bad checks is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the check or checks or other negotiable instrument or
instruments are issued or transferred to a single vendor or single other person
for the payment of $1,000 or more, or if the check or checks or other
negotiable instrument or instruments are issued or transferred to multiple
vendors or persons for the payment of $1,500 or more, passing bad checks is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.11)
§ 131.12 MISUSE OF CREDIT CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Practice deception for the purpose of procuring the issuance of a
credit card, when a credit card is issued in actual reliance thereon;
      (2)   Knowingly buy or sell a credit card from or to a person other than
the issuer;
      (3)   As an officer, employee, or appointee of a political subdivision or
as a public servant as defined under R.C. § 2921.01, knowingly misuse a credit
card account held by a political subdivision.
   (B)   No person, with purpose to defraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Obtain control over a credit card as security for a debt;
      (2)   Obtain property or services by the use of a credit card, in one or
more transactions, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the card
has expired or been revoked, or was obtained, is retained, or is being used in
violation of law;
      (3)   Furnish property or services upon presentation of a credit card,
knowing that the card is being used in violation of law;
      (4)   Represent or cause to be represented to the issuer of a credit card
that property or services have been furnished, knowing that the representation
is false.
   (C)   No person, with purpose to violate this section, shall receive,
possess, control, or dispose of a credit card.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misuse of credit cards.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, a
violation of division (A), (B)(1), or (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division or division (D)(3) of
this section, a violation of division (B)(2), (B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the cumulative retail value of the
property and services involved in one or more violations of division (B)(2),
(B)(3), or (B)(4) of this section which violations involve one or more credit
card accounts and occur within a period of 90 consecutive days commencing on
the date of the first violation, is $1,000 or more, misuse of credit cards is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the victim of the offense is an elderly person or disabled
adult, and if the offense involves a violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of
this section, misuse of credit cards is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.21)
§ 131.13 MAKING OR USING SLUGS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Insert or deposit a slug in a coin machine, with purpose to
defraud;
      (2)   Make, possess, or dispose of a slug, with purpose of enabling
another to defraud by inserting or depositing it in a coin machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or using slugs, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2913.33)
§ 131.14 PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE OF PURPOSE TO DEFRAUD.
   In a prosecution of a person for a theft offense that alleges that the
person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she was facilitating a
fraud, hired or rented an aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, kept
or operated any of the same that has been hired or rented, or engaged
accommodations at a hotel, motel, inn, campground, or other hostelry, it is
prima facie evidence of purpose to defraud if the person did any of the
following:
   (A)   Used deception to induce the rental agency to furnish the person with
the aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat, sailboat, camper, trailer,
horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or used deception to induce the
hostelry to furnish the person with accommodations;
   (B)   Hired or rented any aircraft, motor vehicle, motorcycle, motorboat,
sailboat, camper, trailer, horse, buggy, or other property or equipment, or
engaged accommodations, knowing that he or she is without sufficient means to
pay the hire or rental;
   (C)   Absconded without paying the hire or rental;
   (D)   Knowingly failed to pay the hire or rental as required by the contract
of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure;
   (E)   Knowingly failed to return hired or rented property as required by the
contract of hire or rental, without reasonable excuse for the failure.
(R.C. § 2913.41)
§ 131.15 TAMPERING WITH RECORDS.
   (A)   No person, knowing that he or she has no privilege to do so, and with
purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is facilitating a fraud, shall do
any of the following:
      (1)   Falsify, destroy, remove, conceal, alter, deface, or mutilate any
writing, computer software, data, or record;
      (2)   Utter any writing or record, knowing it to have been tampered with
as provided in division (A)(1) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of tampering with records.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense does not involve data or computer software, tampering with records is
whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   If division (B)(1)(b) of this section does not apply, it is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the writing or record is a will unrevoked at the time of the
offense, it is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if the
offense involves a violation of division (A) of this section involving data or
computer software, tampering with records is whichever of the following is
applicable:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this
section, it is a misdemeanor of the first degree;
         (b)   If the value of the data or computer software involved in the
offense or the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more or if the offense is
committed for the purpose of devising or executing a scheme to defraud or to
obtain property or services and the value of the property or services or the
loss to the victim is $7,500 or more, it is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the writing, data, computer software, or record is kept by or
belongs to a local, state, or federal governmental entity, it is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.42)
§ 131.16 SECURING WRITINGS BY DECEPTION.
   (A)   No person, by deception, shall cause another to execute any writing
that disposes of or encumbers property, or by which a pecuniary obligation is
incurred.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of securing writings by
deception. Except as otherwise provided in this division, securing writings by
deception is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property or
the obligation involved is $1,000 or more, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate to state law. If the victim of the
offense is an elderly person, disabled adult, active duty service member, or
spouse of an active duty service member, securing writings by deception is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.43)
§ 131.17 DEFRAUDING CREDITORS.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud one or more of his or her
creditors, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Remove, conceal, destroy, encumber, convey, or otherwise deal with
any of his or her property;
      (2)   Misrepresent or refuse to disclose to a fiduciary appointed to
administer or manage his or her affairs or estate, the existence, amount, or
location of any of his or her property, or any other information regarding the
property which he or she is legally required to furnish to the fiduciary.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of defrauding creditors.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, defrauding creditors is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the property involved is
$1,000 or more, defrauding creditors is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.45)
§ 131.18 RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall receive, retain, or dispose of property of another
knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the property has been
obtained through commission of a theft offense.
   (B)   It is not a defense to a charge of receiving stolen property in
violation of this section that the property was obtained by means other than
through the commission of a theft offense if the property was explicitly
represented to the accused person as being obtained through the commission of a
theft offense.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of receiving stolen property.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, receiving stolen property is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If any of the following criteria are met, then
a violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law:
      (1)   The value of the property involved is $1,000 or more;
      (2)   The property involved is any of the property listed in R.C. §
2913.71;
      (3)   The property involved is a firearm or dangerous ordnance, as
defined in R.C. § 2923.11;
      (4)   The property involved is a motor vehicle as defined in R.C. §
4501.01;
      (5)   The property involved is any dangerous drug, as defined in R.C. §
4729.01; or
      (6)   The property involved in violation of this section is a special
purchase article as defined in R.C. § 4737.04 or a bulk merchandise container
as defined in R.C. § 4737.012.
(R.C. § 2913.51)
§ 131.19 VALUE OF STOLEN PROPERTY.
   (A)   If more than one item of property or services is involved in a theft
offense or in a violation of R.C. § 1716.14(A) involving a victim who is an
elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, the value of the property or services involved for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property or services involved in the offense.
   (B)   (1)   When a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A), R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or
2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. § 2913.31 or 2913.43 involving
a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. When a
series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02, or a series of violations of, attempts
to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations
of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43 involving a victim who is an active duty service
member or spouse of an active duty service member, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, is committed by the
offender in the offender’s same employment, capacity, or relationship to
another, all of those offenses shall be tried as a single offense. The value of
the property or services involved in the series of offenses for the purpose of
determining the value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value
of all property and services involved in all offenses in the series.
      (2)   If an offender commits a series of offenses under R.C. § 2913.02
that involves a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims, all of
the offenses may be tried as a single offense. If an offender is being tried
for the commission of a series of violations of, attempts to commit a violation
of, conspiracies to violate, or complicity in violations of R.C. § 1716.14(A),
R.C. § 2913.02, 2913.03, or 2913.04, R.C. § 2913.21(B)(1) or (B)(2), or R.C. §
2913.31 or 2913.43, whether committed against one victim or more than one
victim, involving a victim who is an elderly person or disabled adult, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, pursuant
to a scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a
single offense. If an offender is being tried for the commission of a series of
violations of, attempts to commit a violation of, conspiracies to violate, or
complicity in violations of R.C. § 2913.02 or 2913.43, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance to any of these offenses, whether committed
against one victim or more than one victim, involving a victim who is an active
duty service member or spouse of an active duty service member pursuant to a
scheme or course of conduct, all of those offenses may be tried as a single
offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the value of the
property or services involved for the purpose of determining the value as
required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property and
services involved in all of the offenses in the course of conduct.
      (3)   When a series of two or more offenses under R.C. § 2913.40,
2913.48, or 2921.41 is committed by the offender in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another, all of those offenses may be
tried as a single offense. If the offenses are tried as a single offense, the
value of the property or services involved for the purpose of determining the
value as required by R.C. § 2913.61(A) is the aggregate value of all property
and services involved in all of the offenses in the series of two or more
offenses.
      (4)   In prosecuting a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2) or
(B)(3) of this section, it is not necessary to separately allege and prove each
offense in the series. Rather, it is sufficient to allege and prove that the
offender, within a given span of time, committed one or more theft offenses or
violations of R.C. § 2913.40, 2913.48, or 2921.41 in the offender’s same
employment, capacity, or relationship to another as described in division (B)
(1) or (B)(3) of this section, or committed one or more theft offenses that
involve a common course of conduct to defraud multiple victims or a scheme or
course of conduct as described in division (B)(2) of this section. While it is
not necessary to separately allege and prove each offense in the series in
order to prosecute a single offense under division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section, it remains necessary in prosecuting them as a single offense to
prove the aggregate value of the property or services in order to meet the
requisite statutory offense level sought by the prosecution.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be used in determining the value of
property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   The value of an heirloom, memento, collector’s item, antique,
museum piece, manuscript, document, record, or other thing that has intrinsic
worth to its owner and that either is irreplaceable or is replaceable only on
the expenditure of substantial time, effort, or money, is the amount which
would compensate the owner for its loss.
      (2)   The value of personal effects and household goods, and of
materials, supplies, equipment, and fixtures used in the profession, business,
trade, occupation, or avocation of its owner, which property is not covered
under division (C)(1) of this section, and which retains substantial utility
for its purpose regardless of its age or condition, is the cost of replacing
such property with new property of like kind and quality.
      (3)   The value of any real or personal property that is not covered
under division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, and the value of services, is
the fair market value of the property or services. As used in this section,
FAIR MARKET VALUE is the money consideration which a buyer would give and a
seller would accept for property or services, assuming that the buyer is
willing to buy and the seller is willing to sell, that both are fully informed
as to all facts material to the transaction, and that neither is under any
compulsion to act.
   (D)   Without limitation on the evidence which may be used to establish the
value of property or services involved in a theft offense:
      (1)   When the property involved is personal property held for sale at
wholesale or retail, the price at which the property was held for sale is prima
facie evidence of its value.
      (2)   When the property involved is a security or commodity traded on an
exchange, the closing price or, if there is no closing price, the asked price,
given in the latest marked quotation prior to the offense, is prima facie
evidence of the value of the security or commodity.
      (3)   When the property involved is livestock, poultry, or raw
agricultural products for which a local market price is available, the latest
local market price prior to the offense is prima facie evidence of the value of
the livestock, poultry, or products.
      (4)   When the property involved is a negotiable instrument, the face
value is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (5)   When the property involved is a warehouse receipt, bill of lading,
pawn ticket, claim check, or other instrument entitling the holder or bearer to
receive property, the face value or, if there is no face value, the value of
the property covered by the instrument less any payment necessary to receive
the property, is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (6)   When the property involved is a ticket of admission, ticket for
transportation, coupon, token, or other instrument entitling the holder or
bearer to receive property or services, the face value or, if there is no face
value, the value of the property or services which may be received by the
instrument is prima facie evidence of the value of the instrument.
      (7)   When the services involved are gas, electricity, water, telephone,
transportation, shipping, or other services for which the rate is established
by law, the duly established rate is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
      (8)   When the services involved are services for which the rate is not
established by law, and the offender has been notified prior to the offense of
the rate for the services, either in writing, or orally, or by posting in a
manner reasonably calculated to come to the attention of potential offenders,
the rate contained in the notice is prima facie evidence of the value of the
services.
(R.C. § 2913.61(B) - (E))
§ 131.20 DEGREE OF OFFENSE WHEN CERTAIN PROPERTY INVOLVED.
   Regardless of the value of the property involved, and regardless of whether
the offender previously has been convicted of a theft offense, a violation of §
131.08 or §
131.18 is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law if the property
involved is any of the following:
   (A)   A credit card;
   (B)   A printed form for a check or other negotiable instrument, that on its
face identifies the drawer or maker for whose use it is designed or identifies
the account on which it is to be drawn, and that has not been executed by the
drawer or maker or on which the amount is blank;
   (C)   A motor vehicle identification license plate as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.22, a temporary motor vehicle license registration as prescribed by R.C. §
4503.182, or any comparable temporary motor vehicle license registration as
prescribed by the applicable law of another state or the United States;
   (D)   A blank form for a certificate of title or a manufacturer’s or
importer’s certificate to a motor vehicle, as prescribed by R.C. § 4505.07;
   (E)   A blank form for any license listed in R.C. § 4507.01.
(R.C. § 2913.71)
§ 131.21 INJURING VINES, BUSHES, TREES, OR CROPS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly cut down,
destroy, girdle, or otherwise injure a vine, bush, shrub, sapling, tree, or
crop standing or growing on the land of another or upon public land.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (C) of this section,
whoever violates this section is liable in treble damages for the injury
caused.
(R.C. § 901.51)
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
(R.C. § 901.99(A))
§ 131.22 DETENTION AND ARREST OF SHOPLIFTERS AND THOSE COMMITTING MOTION
PICTURE PIRACY; PROTECTION OF INSTITUTIONAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ARCHIVAL INSTITUTION. Means any public or private building, structure, or
shelter in which are stored historical documents, devices, records,
manuscripts, or items of public interest, which historical materials are stored
to preserve the materials or the information in the materials, to disseminate
the information contained in the materials, or to make the materials available
for public inspection or for inspection by certain persons who have a
particular interest in, use for, or knowledge concerning the materials.
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2913.07.
      FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.07.
      MUSEUM. Means any public or private nonprofit institution that is
permanently organized for primarily educational or aesthetic purposes, owns or
borrows objects or items of public interest, and cares for and exhibits to the
public the objects or items.
      PRETRIAL DIVERSION PROGRAM. Means a rehabilitative, educational program
designed to reduce recidivism and promote personal responsibility that is at
least four hours in length and that has been approved by any court in this
state.
   (B)   A merchant, or an employee or agent of a merchant, who has probable
cause to believe that things offered for sale by a mercantile establishment
have been unlawfully taken by a person, may, for the purposes set forth in
division (D) of this section, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a
reasonable length of time within the mercantile establishment or its immediate
vicinity.
   (C)   Any officer, employee, or agent of a library, museum, or archival
institution may, for the purposes set forth in division (D) of this section or
for the purpose of conducting a reasonable investigation of a belief that the
person has acted in a manner described in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) of this
section, detain a person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of time
within, or in the immediate vicinity of, the library, museum, or archival
institution, if the officer, employee, or agent has probable cause to believe
that the person has:
      (1)   Without privilege to do so, knowingly moved, defaced, damaged,
destroyed, or otherwise improperly tampered with property owned by or in the
custody of the library, museum, or archival institution; or
      (2)   With purpose to deprive the library, museum, or archival
institution of property owned by it or in its custody, knowingly obtained or
exerted control over the property without the consent of the owner or person
authorized to give consent, beyond the scope of the express or implied consent
of the owner or person authorized to give consent, by deception, or by threat.
   (D)   An officer, agent, or employee of a library, museum, or archival
institution pursuant to division (C) of this section or a merchant or an
employee or agent of a merchant pursuant to division (B) of this section may
detain another person for any of the following purposes:
      (1)   To recover the property that is the subject of the unlawful taking,
criminal mischief, or theft;
      (2)   To cause an arrest to be made by a peace officer;
      (3)   To obtain a warrant of arrest;
      (4)   To offer the person, if the person is suspected of the unlawful
taking, criminal mischief, or theft and notwithstanding any other provision of
this Code or the Ohio Revised Code, an opportunity to complete a pretrial
diversion program and to inform the person of the other legal remedies
available to the library, museum, archival institution, or merchant.
   (E)   The owner or lessee of a facility in which a motion picture is being
shown, or the owner’s or lessee’s employee or agent, who has probable cause to
believe that a person is or has been operating an audiovisual recording
function of a device in violation of R.C. § 2917.07 may, for the purpose of
causing an arrest to be made by a peace officer or of obtaining an arrest
warrant, detain the person in a reasonable manner for a reasonable length of
time within the facility or its immediate vicinity.
   (F)   The officer, agent, or employee of the library, museum, or archival
institution, the merchant or an employee or agent of a merchant, or the owner,
lessee, employee, or agent of the facility acting under divisions (B), (C) or
(E) of this section shall not search the person detained, search or seize any
property belonging to the person detained without the person’s consent, or use
undue restraint upon the person detained.
   (G)   Any peace officer may arrest without a warrant any person that the
officer has probable cause to believe has committed any act described in
divisions (C)(1) or (C)(2) of this section, that the officer has probable cause
to believe has committed an unlawful taking in a mercantile establishment, or
that the officer has reasonable cause to believe has committed an act
prohibited by R.C. § 2913.07. An arrest under this division shall be made
within a reasonable time after the commission of the act or unlawful taking.
(R.C. § 2935.041)
Statutory reference:
   Arrest without a warrant generally, see R.C. § 2935.03
   Probable cause, see R.C. § 2933.22
§ 131.23 INSURANCE FRAUD; WORKERS’ COMPENSATION FRAUD; MEDICAID FRAUD.
   (A)   Insurance fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Present to, or cause to be presented to, an insurer any written
or oral statement that is part of, or in support of, an application for
insurance, a claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other
benefit pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the
statement, is false or deceptive;
         (b)   Assist, aid, abet, solicit, procure, or conspire with another to
prepare or make any written or oral statement that is intended to be presented
to an insurer as part of, or in support of, an application for insurance, a
claim for payment pursuant to a policy, or a claim for any other benefit
pursuant to a policy, knowing that the statement, or any part of the statement,
is false or deceptive.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of insurance fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, insurance fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the amount of the claim that is false or deceptive is
$1,000 or more, insurance fraud is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not be construed to abrogate, waive, or
modify R.C. § 2317.02(A).
      (4)   As used in this division (A):
         DATA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01 and additionally
includes any other representation of information, knowledge, facts, concepts,
or instructions that are being or have been prepared in a formalized manner.
         DECEPTIVE. Means that a statement, in whole or in part, would cause
another to be deceived because it contains a misleading representation,
withholds information, prevents the acquisition of information, or by any other
conduct, act, or omission creates, confirms, or perpetuates a false impression,
including but not limited to a false impression as to law, value, state of
mind, or other objective or subjective fact.
         INSURER. Means any person that is authorized to engage in the business
of insurance in this state under R.C. Title 39, the Ohio Fair Plan Underwriting
Association created under R.C. § 3929.43, any health insuring corporation, and
any legal entity that is self-insured and provides benefits to its employees or
members.
         POLICY. Means a policy, certificate, contract, or plan that is issued
by an insurer.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any notice, letter, or
memorandum; proof of loss; bill of lading; receipt for payment; invoice,
account, or other financial statement; estimate of property damage; bill for
services; diagnosis or prognosis; prescription; hospital, medical, or dental
chart or other record; x-ray, photograph, videotape, or movie film; test
result; other evidence of loss, injury, or expense; computer-generated
document; and data in any form.
(R.C. § 2913.47)
   (B)   Workers’ compensation fraud.
      (1)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Receive workers’ compensation benefits to which the person is
not entitled;
         (b)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false or
misleading statement with the purpose to secure payment for goods or services
rendered under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131 or to secure workers’
compensation benefits;
         (c)   Alter, falsify, destroy, conceal, or remove any record or
document that is necessary to fully establish the validity of any claim filed
with, or necessary to establish the nature and validity of all goods and
services for which reimbursement or payment was received or is requested from
the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation, or a self-insuring employer under R.C.
Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131;
         (d)   Enter into an agreement or conspiracy to defraud the Bureau of
Workers’ Compensation or a self-insuring employer by making or presenting or
causing to be made or presented a false claim for workers’ compensation
benefits;
         (e)   Make or present or cause to be made or presented a false
statement concerning manual codes, classification or employees, payroll, paid
compensation, or number of personnel, when information of that nature is
necessary to determine the actual workers’ compensation premium or assessment
owed to the Bureau by an employer;
         (f)   Alter, forge, or create a workers’ compensation certificate or
falsely show current or correct workers’ compensation coverage;
         (g)   Fail to secure or maintain workers’ compensation coverage as
required by R.C. Chapter 4123 with the intent to defraud the Bureau of Workers’
Compensation.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of workers’
compensation fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, workers’
compensation fraud is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of
premiums and assessments unpaid pursuant to actions described in divisions (B)
(1)(e), (B)(1)(f), or (B)(1)(g) of this section, or goods, services, property,
or money stolen is $1,000 or more, workers’ compensation fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Upon application of the governmental body that conducted the
investigation and prosecution of a violation of this division (B), the court
shall order the person who is convicted of the violation to pay the
governmental body its costs of investigating and prosecuting the case. These
costs are in addition to any other costs or penalty provided under federal,
state or local law.
      (4)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (B) are not
exclusive remedies and penalties and do not preclude the use of any other
criminal or civil remedy or penalty for any act that is in violation of this
division (B).
      (5)   As used in this division (B):
         CLAIM. Means any attempt to cause the Bureau of Workers’ Compensation,
an independent third party with whom the administrator or an employer contracts
under R.C. § 4121.44, or a self-insuring employer to make payment or
reimbursement for workers’ compensation benefits.
         EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         EMPLOYMENT. Means participating in any trade, occupation, business,
service, or profession for substantial gainful remuneration.
         FALSE. Means wholly or partially untrue or deceptive.
         GOODS. Includes but is not limited to medical supplies, appliances,
rehabilitative equipment, and any other apparatus or furnishing provided or
used in the care, treatment, or rehabilitation of a claimant for workers’
compensation benefits.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial, or business
record relating to the treatment or care of any person, to goods or services
provided to any person, or to rates paid for goods or services provided to any
person, or any record that the administrator of workers’ compensation requires
pursuant to rule.
         REMUNERATION. Includes but is not limited to wages, commissions,
rebates, and any other reward or consideration.
         SELF-INSURING EMPLOYER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4123.01.
         SERVICES. Includes but is not limited to any service provided by any
health care provider to a claimant for workers’ compensation benefits and any
and all services provided by the Bureau as part of workers’ compensation
insurance coverage.
         STATEMENT. Includes but is not limited to any oral, written,
electronic, electronic impulse, or magnetic communication notice, letter,
memorandum, receipt for payment, invoice, account, financial statement, or bill
for services; a diagnosis, prognosis, prescription, hospital, medical, or
dental chart or other record; and a computer generated document.
         WORKERS’ COMPENSATION BENEFITS. Means any compensation or benefits
payable under R.C. Chapter 4121, 4123, 4127, or 4131.
(R.C. § 2913.48)
   (C)   Medicaid fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a false or
misleading statement or representation for use in obtaining reimbursement from
the Medicaid program.
      (2)   No person, with purpose to commit fraud or knowing that the person
is facilitating a fraud, shall do either of the following:
         (a)   Contrary to the terms of the person’s provider agreement,
charge, solicit, accept or receive for goods or services that the person
provides under the Medicaid program any property, money or other consideration
in addition to the amount of reimbursement under the Medicaid program and the
person’s provider agreement for the goods or services and any cost-sharing
expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid Director
regarding the Medicaid program.
         (b)   Solicit, offer or receive any remuneration, other than any cost-
sharing expenses authorized by R.C. § 5162.20 or rules adopted by the Medicaid
Director regarding the Medicaid program, in cash or in kind, including but not
limited to a kickback or rebate, in connection with the furnishing of goods or
services for which whole or partial reimbursement is or may be made under the
Medicaid program.
      (3)   No person, having submitted a claim for or provided goods or
services under the Medicaid program, shall do either of the following for a
period of at least six years after a reimbursement pursuant to that claim, or a
reimbursement for those goods or services, is received under the Medicaid
program:
         (a)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to fully disclose the nature of all goods or services for
which the claim was submitted, or for which reimbursement was received, by the
person; or
         (b)   Knowingly alter, falsify, destroy, conceal or remove any records
that are necessary to disclose fully all income and expenditures upon which
rates of reimbursements were based for the person.
      (4)   Whoever violates this division (C) is guilty of Medicaid fraud.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, Medicaid fraud is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the value of the property, services or funds obtained
in violation of this section is $1,000 or more, Medicaid fraud is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate State law.
      (5)   Upon application of the governmental agency, office or other entity
that conducted the investigation and prosecution in a case under this section,
the court shall order any person who is convicted of a violation of this
section for receiving any reimbursement for furnishing goods or services under
the Medicaid program to which the person is not entitled to pay to the
applicant its cost of investigating and prosecuting the case. The costs of
investigation and prosecution that a defendant is ordered to pay pursuant to
this division shall be in addition to any other penalties for the receipt of
that reimbursement that are provided in this section, R.C. § 2913.40 or
5164.35, or any other provision of law.
      (6)   The provisions of this section are not intended to be exclusive
remedies and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this section.
      (7)   As used in this division (C):
         PROVIDER. Means any person who has signed a provider agreement with
the Department of Medicaid to provide goods or services pursuant to the
Medicaid program or any person who has signed an agreement with a party to such
a provider agreement under which the person agrees to provide goods or services
that are reimbursable under the Medicaid program.
         PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         RECIPIENT. Means any individual who receives goods or services from a
provider under the Medicaid program.
         RECORDS. Means any medical, professional, financial or business
records relating to the treatment or care of any recipient, to goods or
services provided to any recipient, or to rates paid for goods or services
provided to any recipient, and any records that are required by the rules of
the Medicaid Director to be kept for the Medicaid program.
         STATEMENT or REPRESENTATION. Means any oral, written, electronic,
electronic impulse or magnetic communication that is used to identify an item
of goods or a service for which reimbursement may be made under the Medicaid
program or that states income and expense and is or may be used to determine a
rate of reimbursement under the Medicaid program.
(R.C. § 2913.40)
   (D)   Medicaid eligibility fraud.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following in an application
for enrollment in the Medicaid program or in a document that requires a
disclosure of assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for the
Medicaid program:
         (a)   Make or cause to be made a false or misleading statement;
         (b)   Conceal an interest in property;
         (c)   1.   Except as provided in division (D)(1)(c)2. of this section,
fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during the period
beginning 36 months before submission of the application or document and ending
on the date the application or document was submitted;
            2.   Fail to disclose a transfer of property that occurred during
the period beginning 60 months before submission of the application or document
and ending on the date the application or document was submitted and that was
made to an irrevocable trust a portion of which is not distributable to the
applicant for or recipient of Medicaid or to a revocable trust.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud. Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation
of this division (D) is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the value of the
Medicaid services paid as a result of the violation is $1,000 or more, a
violation of this division (D) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
         (b)   In addition to imposing a sentence under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the court shall order that a person who is guilty of Medicaid
eligibility fraud make restitution in the full amount of any Medicaid services
paid on behalf of an applicant for or recipient of Medicaid for which the
applicant or recipient was not eligible, plus interest at the rate applicable
to judgments on unreimbursed amounts from the date on which the Medicaid
services were paid to the date on which restitution is made.
         (c)   The remedies and penalties provided in this division (D) are not
exclusive and do not preclude the use of any other criminal or civil remedy for
any act that is in violation of this division (D).
      (3)   This division (D) does not apply to a person who fully disclosed in
an application for Medicaid or in a document that requires a disclosure of
assets for the purpose of determining eligibility for Medicaid all of the
interests in property of the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, all
transfers of property by the applicant for or recipient of Medicaid, and the
circumstances of all those transfers.
      (4)   Any amounts of Medicaid services recovered as restitution under
this division (D) and any interest on those amounts shall be credited to the
General Revenue Fund, and any applicable federal share shall be returned to the
appropriate agency or department of the United States.
      (5)   As used in this division (D):
         MEDICAID SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
         PROPERTY. Means any real or personal property or other asset in which
a person has any legal title or interest.
(R.C. § 2913.401)
§ 131.24 INJURY TO PROPERTY BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
property.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 131.25 EVIDENCE OF INTENT TO COMMIT THEFT OF RENTED PROPERTY OR RENTAL
SERVICES; EVIDENCE OF LACK OF CAPACITY TO CONSENT.
   (A)   Evidence of intent to commit theft of rented property or rental
services.
      (1)   As used in this division (A):
         RENTER. Means a person who owns rented property.
         RENTEE. Means a person who pays consideration to a renter for the use
of rented property.
      (2)   Each of the following shall be considered evidence of intent to
commit theft of rented property or rental services:
         (a)   At the time of entering into the rental contract, the rentee
presented the renter with identification that was materially false, fictitious,
or not current with respect to name, address, place of employment, or other
relevant information.
         (b)   After receiving a notice demanding the return of the rented
property as provided in division (A)(3) of this section, the rentee neither
returned the rented property nor made arrangements acceptable with the renter
to return the rented property.
      (3)   To establish that a rentee has an intent to commit theft of rented
property or rental services under division (A)(2)(b) of this section, a renter
may issue a notice to a rentee demanding the return of the rented property. The
renter shall mail the notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the rentee at the address the rentee gave when the rental contract was
executed, or to the rentee at the last address the rentee or the rentee’s agent
furnished in writing to the renter.
      (4)   A demand for the return of the rented property is not a
prerequisite for the prosecution of a rentee for theft of rented property or
rental services. The evidence specified in division (A)(2) of this section does
not constitute the only evidence that may be considered as evidence of intent
to commit theft of rented property or rental services.
(R.C. § 2913.72)
   (B)   Evidence of lack of capacity to consent.
      (1)   In a prosecution for any alleged violation of §
131.08 through
131.20,
131.23,
131.25 through
131.29, or
132.11, if the lack of consent of the victim is an element of the provision
that allegedly was violated, evidence that, at the time of the alleged
violation, the victim lacked the capacity to give consent is admissible to show
that the victim did not give consent.
      (2)   As used in this section, LACKS THE CAPACITY TO CONSENT means being
impaired for any reason to the extent that the person lacks sufficient
understanding or capacity to make and carry out reasonable decisions concerning
the person or the person’s resources.
(R.C. § 2913.73)
§ 131.26 FORGERY OF IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do either of the following:
      (1)   Forge an identification card.
      (2)   Sell or otherwise distribute a card that purports to be an
identification card, knowing it was forged.
   (B)   As used in this section, IDENTIFICATION CARD means a card that
includes personal information or characteristics of an individual, a purpose of
which is to establish the identity of the bearer described on the card, whether
the words “identity”, “identification”, “identification card”, or other similar
words appear on the card.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of forging
identification cards or selling or distributing forged identification cards.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, forging identification cards or
selling or distributing forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
division (A) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, forging identification cards or selling or distributing
forged identification cards is a misdemeanor of the first degree and, in
addition, the court shall impose upon the offender a fine not less than $250.
      (2)    If the victim of a violation of this section is an elderly person,
R.C. § 2913.31(C)(2)(b) applies and the offense shall be prosecuted under R.C.
§ 2913.31.
(R.C. § 2913.31(B), (C)(2))
Statutory reference:
   Forgery, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2913.31(A) and (C)(1)
   Forgery of originating address or other routing information in connection
with the transmission of an electronic mail advertisement, felony provisions,
see R.C. § 2307.64
§ 131.27 CRIMINAL SIMULATION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud, or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Make or alter any object so that it appears to have value because
of antiquity, rarity, curiosity, source, or authorship, which it does not in
fact possess.
      (2)   Practice deception in making, retouching, editing, or reproducing
any photograph, movie film, video tape, phonograph record, or recording tape.
      (3)   Falsely or fraudulently make, simulate, forge, alter, or
counterfeit any wrapper, label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor
Control Commission under R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, falsely or fraudulently
cause to be made, simulated, forged, altered, or counterfeited any wrapper,
label, stamp, cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under
R.C. Chapters 4301 and 4303, or use more than once any wrapper, label, stamp,
cork or cap prescribed by the Liquor Control Commission under R.C. Chapters
4301 and 4303.
      (4)   Offer, or possess with the purpose to offer, any object that the
person knows to have been simulated as provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or
(A)(3) of this section.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of criminal simulation. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, criminal simulation is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the loss to the victim is $1,000 or more, criminal
simulation is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2913.32)
§ 131.28 PERSONATING AN OFFICER.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that he or she is
facilitating a fraud, or with purpose to induce another to purchase property or
services, shall personate a law enforcement officer, or an inspector,
investigator, or agent of any governmental agency.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of personating an officer, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2913.44)
Cross-reference:
       Impersonating an officer (non-fraud offense), see §
132.12
§ 131.29 TRADEMARK COUNTERFEITING.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Attach, affix, or otherwise use a counterfeit mark in connection
with the manufacture of goods or services, whether or not the goods or services
are intended for sale or resale.
      (2)   Possess, sell, or offer for sale tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property with the knowledge
that they are designed for the production or reproduction of counterfeit marks.
      (3)   Purchase or otherwise acquire goods, and keep or otherwise have the
goods in the person’s possession, with the knowledge that a counterfeit mark is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with the goods and
with the intent to sell or otherwise dispose of the goods.
      (4)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of goods with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used
in connection with the goods.
      (5)   Sell, offer for sale, or otherwise provide services with the
knowledge that a counterfeit mark is used in connection with that sale, offer
for sale, or other provision of the services.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of trademark counterfeiting.
      (1)   A violation of division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)    Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
circumstances of the violation indicate that the tools, machines, instruments,
materials, articles, or other items of personal property involved in the
violation were intended for use in the commission of a felony, a violation of
division (A)(2) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of
division (A)(3), (A)(4) or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the cumulative sales price of the goods or services to which or in
connection with which the counterfeit mark is attached, affixed or otherwise
used in the offense is $1,000 or more, a violation of division (A)(3), (A)(4)
or (A)(5) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   A defendant may assert as an affirmative defense to a charge of a
violation of this section defenses, affirmative defenses, and limitations on
remedies that would be available in a civil, criminal or administrative action
or proceeding under the Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as
amended, the Trademark Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as
amended, R.C. Chapter 1329 or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or
common law.
   (D)   (1)   Law enforcement officers may seize pursuant to Criminal Rule 41,
R.C. Chapter 2933, or R.C. Chapter 2981 either of the following:
         (a)   Goods to which or in connection with which a person attached,
affixed, otherwise used, or intended to attach, affix or otherwise use a
counterfeit mark in violation of this section.
         (b)   Tools, machines, instruments, materials, articles, vehicles or
other items of personal property that are possessed, sold, offered for sale, or
used in a violation of this section or in an attempt to commit or complicity in
the commission of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of R.C. Chapter 2981, if a
person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, an
attempt to violate this section, or complicity in a violation of this section,
the court involved shall declare that the goods described in division (D)(1)(a)
of this section and the personal property described in division (D)(1)(b) of
this section are contraband and are forfeited. Prior to the court’s entry of
judgment under Criminal Rule 32, the owner of a registered trademark or service
mark that is the subject to the counterfeit mark may recommend a manner in
which the forfeited goods and forfeited personal property should be disposed
of. If that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition, the
court is not bound by the recommendation. If that owner makes a timely
recommendation of a manner of disposition, the court may include in its entry
of judgment an order that requires appropriate persons to dispose of the
forfeited goods and forfeited personal property in the recommended manner. If
the owner fails to make a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition or
if that owner makes a timely recommendation of a manner of disposition but the
court determines to not follow the recommendation, the court shall include in
its entry of judgement an order that requires the law enforcement agency that
employs the law enforcement officer who seized the forfeited goods or the
forfeited personal property to destroy them or cause their destruction.
   (E)   This section does not affect the rights of an owner of a trademark or
service mark, or the enforcement in a civil action or in administrative
proceedings of the rights of an owner or a trademark or service mark under the
Lanham Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1051 through 1127, as amended, the Trademark
Counterfeiting Act of 1984, being 18 U.S.C. § 2320, as amended, R.C. Chapter
1329, or another section of the Ohio Revised Code, or common law.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COUNTERFEIT MARK.
         (a)   Except as provided in division (b) of this definition, the term
means a spurious trademark or a spurious service mark that satisfies both of
the following:
            1.   It is identical with or substantially indistinguishable from a
mark that is registered on the principal register in the United States Patent
and Trademark Office for the same goods or services as the goods or services to
which or in connection with which the spurious trademark or spurious service
mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise used, or from a mark that is registered
with the Secretary of State pursuant to R.C. §§ 1329.54 through 1329.67 for the
same goods or services as the goods or services to which or in connection with
which the spurious trademark or spurious service mark is attached, affixed, or
otherwise used, and the owner of the registration uses that registered
trademark, whether or not the offender knows that the mark is registered in a
manner described in this division (a)1.
            2.   Its use is likely to cause confusion or mistake or to deceive
other persons.
         (b)   The term does not include a mark or other designation that is
attached to, affixed to, or otherwise used in connection with goods or services
if the holder of the right to use the mark or other designation authorizes the
manufacturer, producer, or vendor of those goods or services to attach, affix,
or otherwise use the mark or other designation in connection with those goods
or services at the time of their manufacture, production or sale.
      CUMULATIVE SALES PRICE. Means the product of the lowest single unit sales
price charged or sought to be charged by an offender for goods to which or in
connection with which a counterfeit mark is attached, affixed, or otherwise
used or of the lowest single service transaction price charged or sought to be
charged by an offender for services in connection with which a counterfeit mark
is used, multiplied by the total number of those goods or services, whether or
not units of goods are sold or are in an offender’s possession, custody or
control.
      REGISTERED TRADEMARK OR SERVICE MARK. Means a trademark or service mark
that is registered in a manner described in division (a) of the definition of
“counterfeit mark”.
      SERVICE MARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
      TRADEMARK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1329.54.
(R.C. § 2913.34)
§ 131.30 DIMINISHING OR INTERFERING WITH FORFEITABLE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall destroy, damage, remove, or transfer property that is
subject to forfeiture or otherwise take any action in regard to property that
is subject to forfeiture with purpose to do any of the following:
      (1)   Prevent or impair the state’s or political subdivision’s lawful
authority to take the property into its custody or control under R.C. Chapter
2981 or to continue holding the property under its lawful custody or control;
      (2)   Impair or defeat the court’s continuing jurisdiction over the
person and property;
      (3)   Devalue property that the person knows, or has reasonable cause to
believe, is subject to forfeiture proceedings under R.C. Chapter 2981.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with or
diminishing forfeitable property. Except as otherwise provided in this division
(B), interference with or diminishing forfeitable property is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the value of the property is $1,000 or more, interference
with or diminishing forfeitable property is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2981.07)
§ 131.31 RECORDING CREDIT CARD, TELEPHONE OR SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBERS.
   (A)   No person shall record or cause to be recorded either of the
following:
      (1)   A credit card account number of the other party to a transaction,
when a check, bill of exchange or other draft is presented for payment; or
      (2)   The telephone number or Social Security account number of the other
party to a transaction, when payment is made by credit card charge agreement,
check, bill of exchange or other draft.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a transaction, if all
of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number is recorded for a legitimate business purpose, including
collection purposes.
      (2)   The other party to the transaction consents to the recording of the
credit card account number, Social Security account number or telephone number.
      (3)   The credit card account number, Social Security account number or
telephone number that is recorded during the course of the transaction is not
disclosed to any third party for any purposes other than collection purposes
and is not used to market goods or services unrelated to the goods or services
purchased in the transaction.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prohibits the recording of the number of a
credit card account when given in lieu of a deposit to secure payment in the
event of default, loss, damage or other occurrence, or requires a person to
accept a check presented for payment, if the other party to the transaction
refuses to consent to the recording of the number of the party’s Social
Security account or license to operate a motor vehicle.
(R.C. § 1349.17)
   (D)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of a
minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 1349.99(A))
§ 131.32 PROSECUTIONS FOR THEFT OF UTILITIES.
   (A)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves alleged tampering with a gas, electric, steam or water meter,
conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the utility,
proof that a meter, conduit or attachment of a utility has been tampered with
is prima facie evidence that the person who is obligated to pay for the service
rendered through the meter, conduit or attachment, and who is in possession or
control of the meter, conduit or attachment at the time the tampering occurred
has caused the tampering with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (B)   In a prosecution for a theft offense, as defined in R.C. § 2913.01,
that involves the alleged reconnection of a gas, electric, steam or water
meter, conduit or attachment of a utility that has been disconnected by the
utility, proof that a meter, conduit or attachment disconnected by a utility
has been reconnected without the consent of the utility is prima facie evidence
that the person in possession or control of the meter, conduit or attachment at
the time of the reconnection has reconnected the meter, conduit or attachment
with intent to commit a theft offense.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      TAMPER. Means to interfere with, damage or bypass a utility meter,
conduit or attachment with the intent to impede the correct registration of a
meter or the proper functions of a conduit or attachment so as to reduce the
amount of utility service that is registered on the meter.
      UTILITY. Means any electric light company, gas company, natural gas
company, pipe- line company, water-works company or heating or cooling company,
as defined in R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), its lessees,
trustees or receivers, or any similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision.
(R.C. § 4933.18)
   (D)   Each electric light company, gas company, natural gas company,
pipeline company, waterworks company or heating or cooling company, as defined
by R.C. § 4905.03(C), (D), (E), (F), (G), or (H), or its lessees, trustees or
receivers, and each similar utility owned or operated by a political
subdivision, shall notify its customers, on an annual basis, that tampering
with or bypassing a meter constitutes a theft offense that could result in the
imposition of criminal sanctions.
(R.C. § 4933.19)
§ 131.33 MOTION PICTURE PIRACY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      AUDIOVISUAL RECORDING FUNCTION. Means the capability of a device to
record or transmit a motion picture or any part of a motion picture by means of
any technology existing on, or developed after, March 9, 2004.
      FACILITY. Means a movie theater.
   (B)   No person, without the written consent of the owner or lessee of the
facility and of the licensor of the motion picture, shall knowingly operate an
audiovisual recording function of a device in a facility in which the motion
picture is being shown.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of motion
picture piracy, a misdemeanor of the first degree on the first offense and a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit or restrict a lawfully authorized
investigative, law enforcement, protective, or intelligence gathering employee
or agent of the government of this state or a political subdivision of this
state, or of the federal government, when acting in an official capacity, from
operating an audiovisual recording function of a device in any facility in
which a motion picture is being shown.
   (E)   Division (B) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of any other prohibition in this code or the Ohio Revised Code. Any act that is
a violation of both division (B) of this section and another provision of this
code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, under the
other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, or under both this
section and the other provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
(R.C. § 2913.07)
§ 131.34 RAILROAD VANDALISM; CRIMINAL TRESPASS; INTERFERENCE WITH OPERATION OF
TRAIN; GRADE CROSSING DEVICE VANDALISM.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, and by any means, drop or throw any object
at, onto, or in the path of, any railroad rail, railroad track, locomotive,
engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company while such vehicle
is on a railroad track.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall climb upon or into any
locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other vehicle of a railroad company when
it is on a railroad track.
   (C)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall disrupt, delay, or
prevent the operation of any train or other vehicle of a railroad company while
such vehicle is on a railroad track.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of railroad
vandalism. Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of criminal
trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or other railroad vehicle.
Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of interference with
the operation of a train. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad vandalism; criminal trespass on a locomotive, engine, railroad car, or
other railroad vehicle; and interference with the operation of a train each is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation of division (A), (B), or
(C) of this section causes serious physical harm to property or creates a
substantial risk of physical harm to any person, causes physical harm to any
person, or causes serious physical harm to any person, the violation is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.10)
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deface, damage, obstruct, remove, or
otherwise impair the operation of any railroad grade crossing warning signal or
other protective device, including any gate, bell, light, crossbuck, stop sign,
yield sign, advance warning sign, or advance pavement marking.
   (F)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of railroad
grade crossing device vandalism. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the violation of division (E) of this section causes serious physical harm
to property or creates a substantial risk of physical harm to any person,
causes physical harm to any person, or causes serious physical harm to any
person, railroad grade crossing device vandalism is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2909.101)
§ 131.35 DESECRATION.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall purposely deface, damage,
pollute, or otherwise physically mistreat any of the following:
      (1)   Any public monument;
      (2)   Any historical or commemorative marker, or any structure, Indian
mound or earthwork, cemetery, thing, or site of great historical or
archaeological interest;
      (3)   A place of worship, its furnishings, or religious artifacts or
sacred texts within the place of worship or within the grounds upon which the
place of worship is located;
      (4)   A work of art or museum piece;
      (5)   Any other object of reverence or sacred devotion.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of desecration. A violation of
division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the second degree. A violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   As used in this section, “cemetery” means any place of burial and
includes burial sites that contain American Indian burial objects placed with
or containing American Indian human remains.
(R.C. § 2927.11)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
132.01   Riot
   
132.02   Failure to disperse
   
132.03   Justifiable use of force to suppress riot
   
132.04   Disorderly conduct
   
132.05   Disturbing a lawful meeting
   
132.06   Misconduct at an emergency
   
132.07   Telecommunications harassment
   
132.08   Inducing panic
   
132.09   Making false alarms
   
132.10   Inciting to violence
   
132.11   Unlawful display of law enforcement emblem
   
132.12   Impersonating a peace officer
   
132.13   Safety of crowds attending live entertainment performances
   
132.14   Misconduct involving a public transportation system
   
132.15   Impeding public passage of an emergency service responder
Cross-reference:
   Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
Statutory reference:
   Misuse of “Block Parent” or “McGruff House” symbol, see R.C. § 2917.46
§ 132.01 RIOT.
   (A)   No person shall participate with four or more others in a course of
disorderly conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance:
      (1)   With purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of a
misdemeanor, other than disorderly conduct;
      (2)   With purpose to intimidate a public official or employee into
taking or refraining from official action, or with purpose to hinder, impede,
or obstruct a function of government;
      (3)   With purpose to hinder, impede, or obstruct the orderly process of
administration or instruction at an educational institution, or to interfere
with or disrupt lawful activities carried on at the institution.
   (B)   No person shall participate with four or more others with purpose to
do an act with unlawful force or violence, even though the act might otherwise
be lawful.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of riot, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2917.03)
   (D)   For the purposes of prosecuting violations of this section, the
prosecution is not required to allege or prove that the offender expressly
agreed with four or more others to commit any act that constitutes a violation
this section prior to or while committing those acts.
(R.C. § 2917.031)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated riot, felony provisions, see R.C. § 2917.02
§ 132.02 FAILURE TO DISPERSE.
   (A)   Where five or more persons are participating in a course of disorderly
conduct in violation of R.C. § 2917.11 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, and there are other persons in the vicinity whose presence creates
the likelihood of physical harm to persons or property or of serious public
inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm, a law enforcement officer or other public
official may order the participants and the other persons to disperse. No
person shall knowingly fail to obey the order.
   (B)   Nothing in this section requires persons to disperse who are peaceably
assembled for a lawful purpose.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to disperse.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) of this section,
failure to disperse is a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   Failure to disperse is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if the
failure to obey the order described in division (A) of this section creates the
likelihood of physical harm to persons or is committed at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
(R.C. § 2917.04)
§ 132.03 JUSTIFIABLE USE OF FORCE TO SUPPRESS RIOT.
   A law enforcement officer or firefighter engaged in suppressing a riot or in
protecting persons or property during a riot:
   (A)   Is justified in using force, other than deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters;
   (B)   Is justified in using force, including deadly force, when and to the
extent he or she has probable cause to believe such force is necessary to
disperse or apprehend rioters whose conduct is creating a substantial risk of
serious physical harm to persons.
(R.C. § 2917.05)
§ 132.04 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance, or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property,
or in violent or turbulent behavior;
      (2)   Making unreasonable noise or an offensively coarse utterance,
gesture, or display, or communicating unwarranted and grossly abusive language
to any person;
      (3)   Insulting, taunting, or challenging another, under circumstances in
which that conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      (4)   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway, or right-of-way, or to, from, within, or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others, and by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      (5)   Creating a condition that is physically offensive to persons or
that presents a risk of physical harm to persons or property, by any act that
serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender.
   (B)   No person while voluntarily intoxicated shall do either of the
following:
      (1)   In a public place or in the presence of two or more persons, engage
in conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance, or
alarm to persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he
or she were not intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on
others;
      (2)   Engage in conduct or create a condition that presents a risk of
physical harm to himself, herself or another, or to the property of another.
   (C)   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse is not a violation of division
(B) of this section.
   (D)   If a person appears to an ordinary observer to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe that the person is voluntarily intoxicated for
purposes of division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disorderly conduct.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) of this
section, disorderly conduct is a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Disorderly conduct is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if any of
the following applies:
         (a)   The offender persists in disorderly conduct after reasonable
warning or request to desist.
         (b)   The offense is committed in the vicinity of a school or in a
school safety zone.
         (c)   The offense is committed in the presence of any law enforcement
officer, firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services
person, or other authorized person who is engaged in the person’s duties at the
scene of a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
         (d)   The offense is committed in the presence of any emergency
facility person who is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility.
      (3)   If an offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to three or more violations of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 2917.11(B),
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation
of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2925.01.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.11)
§ 132.05 DISTURBING A LAWFUL MEETING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to prevent or disrupt a lawful meeting,
procession, or gathering, shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Do any act which obstructs or interferes with the due conduct of
the meeting, procession, or gathering.
      (2)   Make any utterance, gesture, or display which outrages the
sensibilities of the group.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disturbing a lawful
meeting. Except as otherwise provided in this division, disturbing a lawful
meeting is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Disturbing a lawful meeting is a
misdemeanor of the first degree if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The violation is committed with the intent to disturb or disquiet
any assemblage of people met for religious worship at a tax-exempt place of
worship, regardless of whether the conduct is within the place at which the
assemblage is held or is on the property on which that place is located and
disturbs the order and solemnity of the assemblage.
      (2)   The violation is committed with the intent to prevent, disrupt or
interfere with a virtual meeting or gathering of people for religious worship,
through use of a computer, computer system, telecommunications device or other
electronic device or system, or in any other manner.
   (C)   As used in this section:
      COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      VIRTUAL MEETING OR GATHERING. A meeting or gathering by interactive video
conference or teleconference, or by a combination thereof.
(R.C. § 2917.12)
§ 132.06 MISCONDUCT AT AN EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Hamper the lawful operations of any law enforcement officer,
firefighter, rescuer, medical person, emergency medical services person, or
other authorized person engaged in the person’s duties at the scene of a fire,
accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind;
      (2)   Hamper the lawful activities of any emergency facility person who
is engaged in the person’s duties in an emergency facility;
      (3)   Fail to obey the lawful order of any law enforcement officer
engaged in the law enforcement officer’s duties at the scene of or in
connection with a fire, accident, disaster, riot, or emergency of any kind.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit access or deny
information to any news media representative in the lawful exercise of the news
media representative’s duties.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of misconduct at an emergency.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If violation of this section creates a risk
of physical harm to persons or property, misconduct at an emergency is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      EMERGENCY FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency medical
services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
(R.C. § 2917.13)
§ 132.07 TELECOMMUNICATIONS HARASSMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause to be made a
telecommunication, or knowingly permit a telecommunication to be made from a
telecommunications device under the person’s control, to another, if the caller
does any of the following:
      (1)   Makes the telecommunication with purpose to harass, intimidate, or
abuse any person at the premises to which the telecommunication is made,
whether or not actual communication takes place between the caller and a
recipient;
      (2)   Describes, suggests, requests, or proposes that the caller, the
recipient of the telecommunication, or any other person engage in sexual
activity, and the recipient or another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made has requested, in a previous telecommunication or in
the immediate telecommunication, that the caller not make a telecommunication
to the recipient or to the premises to which the telecommunication is made;
      (3)   During the telecommunication, violates R.C. § 2903.21 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (4)   Knowingly states to the recipient of the telecommunication that the
caller intends to cause damage to or destroy public or private property, and
the recipient, any member of the recipient’s family, or any other person who
resides at the premises to which the telecommunication is made owns, leases,
resides, or works in, will at the time of the destruction or damaging be near
or in, has the responsibility of protecting, or insures the property that will
be destroyed or damaged;
      (5)   Knowingly makes the telecommunication to the recipient of the
telecommunication, to another person at the premises to which the
telecommunication is made, or to those premises, and the recipient or another
person at those premises previously has told the caller not to make a
telecommunication to those premises or to any persons at those premises;
      (6)   Knowingly makes any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal to
the recipient of the telecommunication that is threatening, intimidating,
menacing, coercive, or obscene with the intent to abuse, threaten, or harass
the recipient;
      (7)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly interrupts the
telecommunication service of any person;
      (8)   Without a lawful business purpose, knowingly transmits to any
person, regardless of whether the telecommunication is heard in its entirety,
any file, document, or other communication that prevents that person from using
the person’s telephone service or electronic communication device;
      (9)   Knowingly makes any false statement concerning the death, injury,
illness, disfigurement, reputation, indecent conduct, or criminal conduct of
the recipient of the telecommunication or family or household member of the
recipient with purpose to abuse, threaten, intimidate, or harass the recipient;
      (10)   Knowingly incites another person through a telecommunication or
other means to harass or participate in the harassment of a person;
      (11)   Knowingly alarms the recipient by making a telecommunication
without a lawful purpose at an hour or hours known to be inconvenient to the
recipient and in an offensive or repetitive manner.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made a telecommunication or
permit a telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under
the person’s control, with purpose to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly post a text or audio statement or an
image on an internet web site or web page for the purpose of abusing,
threatening, or harassing another person.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of telecommunications
harassment.
      (2)   A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(5), (A)(6), (A)
(7), (A)(8), (A)(9), (A)(10), or (A)(11) or (B) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree on a first offense and a felony on each
subsequent offense, which shall be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree on a
first offense and a felony on each subsequent offense, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of division (A)(4) of this section
results in economic harm of $1,000 or more, telecommunications harassment is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   No cause of action may be asserted in any court of this municipality
against any provider of a telecommunications service, interactive computer
service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or against any
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, for any
injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly arises out of the
provider’s, officer’s, employee’s, or agent’s provision of information,
facilities, or assistance in accordance with the terms of a court order that is
issued in relation to the investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation
of this section. A provider of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, or an
officer, employee, or agent of a telecommunications service, interactive
computer service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230, or information service, is
immune from any civil or criminal liability for injury, death, or loss to
person or property that allegedly arises out of the provider’s, officer’s,
employee’s, or agent’s provision of information, facilities, or assistance in
accordance with the terms of a court order that is issued in relation to the
investigation or prosecution of an alleged violation of this section.
   (E)   (1)   This section does not apply to a person solely because the
person provided access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control, including
having provided capabilities that are incidental to providing access or
connection to or from the electronic method of remotely transferring the
information, and that do not include the creation of the content of the
material that is the subject of the access or connection. In addition, any
person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method of
remotely transferring information not under that person’s control shall not be
liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the receipt or
transmission through its service of any information that the person believes
is, or will be sent, in violation of this section.
      (2)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not create an affirmative duty
for any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic method
of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control to block
the receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it
believes is, or will be sent, in violation of this section except as otherwise
provided by law.
      (3)   Division (E)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of this section or who knowingly
advertises the availability of material of that nature.
      (4)   A provider or user of an interactive computer service, as defined
in 47 U.S.C. § 230, shall neither be treated as the publisher or speaker of any
information provided by another information content provider, as defined in 47
U.S.C. § 230, nor held civilly or criminally liable for the creation or
development of information provided by another information content provider, as
defined in 47 U.S.C. § 230. Nothing in this division shall be construed to
protect a person from liability to the extent that the person developed or
created any content in violation of this section.
   (F)   Divisions (A)(5) to (A)(11) and (B)(2) of this section do not apply to
a person who, while employed or contracted by a newspaper, magazine, press
association, news agency, news wire service, cable channel or cable operator,
or radio or television station, is gathering, processing, transmitting,
compiling, editing, or disseminating information for the general public within
the scope of the person’s employment in that capacity or the person’s
contractual authority in that capacity.
   (G)   As used in divisions (A) through (D) of this section:
      CABLE OPERATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
      CALLER. Means the person described in division (A) of this section who
makes or causes to be made a telecommunication or who permits a
telecommunication to be made from a telecommunications device under that
person’s control.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means all direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary
harm suffered by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. The term
includes but is not limited to all of the following:
         (a)   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (b)   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
         (c)   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
         (d)   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division
(A)(9) of this section is committed:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse of
the recipient;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the recipient, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the recipient;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the recipient, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
recipient.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the recipient of the
telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in division (A)(9) of this
section is committed is the other natural parent or is the putative other
natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the recipient of the telecommunication against whom the act prohibited in
division (A)(9) of this section is committed in a common law marital
relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting with the recipient, or who otherwise
has cohabited with the recipient within five years prior to the date of the
alleged commission of the act in question.
      SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   (H)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person from making a
telecommunication to a debtor that is in compliance with the “Fair Debt
Collection Practices Act”, 15 U.S.C. § 1692, as amended, or the “Telephone
Consumer Protection Act”, 47 U.S.C. § 227, as amended.
(R.C. § 2917.21)
§ 132.08 INDUCING PANIC.
   (A)   No person shall cause the evacuation of any public place, or otherwise
cause serious public inconvenience or alarm, by doing any of the following:
      (1)   Initiating or circulating a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false.
      (2)   Threatening to commit any offense of violence.
      (3)   Committing any offense, with reckless disregard of the likelihood
that its commission will cause serious public inconvenience or alarm.
   (B)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to any person
conducting an authorized fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inducing panic.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3), inducing panic is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If a violation of this section results in physical harm to any
person, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of $1,000 or more,
inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
public place involved in a violation of division (A)(1) is a school or an
institution of higher education, inducing panic is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a
purported, threatened or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, inducing
panic is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      BIOLOGICAL AGENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2917.33.
      ECONOMIC HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   All direct, incidental and consequential pecuniary harm suffered
by a victim as a result of the criminal conduct. “Economic harm” as described
in this division includes but is not limited to all of the following:
            1.   All wages, salaries or other compensation lost as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            2.   The cost of all wages, salaries or other compensation paid to
employees for time those employees are prevented from working as a result of
the criminal conduct;
            3.   The overhead costs incurred from the time that a business is
shut down as a result of the criminal conduct;
            4.   The loss of value to tangible or intangible property that was
damaged as a result of the criminal conduct.
         (b)   All costs incurred by the state or any political subdivision as
a result of, or in making any response to, the criminal conduct that
constituted the violation of this section or R.C. § 2917.32, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, including but not limited to all
costs so incurred by any law enforcement officers, firefighters, rescue
personnel, or emergency medical services personnel of the state or the
political subdivision.
      EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSONNEL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2133.21.
      INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A state university or college as defined in R.C. § 3345.12(A)
(1), community college, state community college, university branch, or
technical college;
         (b)   A private, nonprofit college, university or other post-secondary
institution located in this state that possesses a certificate of authorization
issued by the Chancellor of Higher Education pursuant to R.C. Chapter 1713;
         (c)   A post-secondary institution with a certificate of registration
issued by the State Board of Career Colleges and Schools pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 3332.
      SCHOOL. Means any school operated by a board of education or any school
for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards
under R.C. § 3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular
activities, or training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a
violation of this section is committed.
      WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any weapon that is designed or intended to cause death or
serious physical harm through the release, dissemination, or impact of toxic or
poisonous chemicals, or other precursors;
         (b)   Any weapon involving a disease organism or biological agent;
         (c)   Any weapon that is designed to release radiation or
radioactivity at a level dangerous to human life;
         (d)   Any of the following, except to the extent that the item or
device in question is expressly excepted from the definition of “destructive
device” pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(4) and regulations issued under that
section:
            1.   Any explosive, incendiary, or poison gas bomb, grenade, rocket
having a propellant charge of more than four ounces, missile having an
explosive or incendiary charge of more than one-quarter ounce, mine, or similar
device;
            2.   Any combination of parts either designed or intended for use
in converting any item or device into any item or device described in division
(d)1. of this definition and from which an item or device described in that
division may be readily assembled.
(R.C. § 2917.31)
§ 132.09 MAKING FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to cause public inconvenience or alarm.
      (2)   Knowingly cause a false alarm of fire or other emergency to be
transmitted to or within any organization, public or private, for dealing with
emergencies involving a risk of physical harm to persons or property.
      (3)   Report to any law enforcement agency an alleged offense or other
incident within its concern, knowing that the offense did not occur;
      (4)   Initiate or circulate a report or warning of an alleged or
impending fire, explosion, crime, or other catastrophe, knowing that the report
or warning is false and likely to impede the operation of a critical
infrastructure facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person conducting an authorized
fire or emergency drill.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making false alarms. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, making false alarms is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If a violation of this section results in economic harm of
$1,000 or more, making false alarms is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If a violation of this section pertains to a purported,
threatened, or actual use of a weapon of mass destruction, making false alarms
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   It is not a defense to a charge under this section that pertains
to a purported or threatened use of a weapon of mass destruction that the
offender did not possess or have the ability to use a weapon of mass
destruction or that what was represented to be a weapon of mass destruction was
not a weapon of mass destruction.
      (2)   Any act that is a violation of this section and any other section
of the Ohio Revised Code or this code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2911.21.
      ECONOMIC HARM and WEAPON OF MASS DESTRUCTION. Have the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2917.31.
(R.C. § 2917.32)
§ 132.10 INCITING TO VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly engage in conduct designed to urge or incite
another to commit any offense of violence when either of the following apply:
      (1)   The conduct takes place under circumstances that create a clear and
present danger that any offense of violence will be committed.
      (2)   The conduct proximately results in the commission of any offense of
violence.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of inciting to violence. If
the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or incited to
commit is a misdemeanor, inciting to violence is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offense of violence that the other person is being urged or
incited to commit is a felony, inciting to violence is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2917.01)
§ 132.11 UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT EMBLEM.
   (A)   No person who is not entitled to do so shall knowingly display on a
motor vehicle the emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of the unlawful display of the
emblem of a law enforcement agency or an organization of law enforcement
officers, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2913.441)
§ 132.12 IMPERSONATING A PEACE OFFICER.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Means an employee of the United States
who serves in a position the duties of which are primarily the investigation,
apprehension, or detention of individuals suspected or convicted of offenses
under the criminal laws of the United States.
      IMPERSONATE. Means to act the part of, assume the identity of, wear the
uniform or any part of the uniform of, or display the identification of a
particular person or of a member of a class of persons with purpose to make
another person believe that the actor is that particular person or is a member
of that class of persons.
      INVESTIGATOR OF THE BUREAU OF CRIMINAL IDENTIFICATION AND INVESTIGATION.
Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.11.
      PEACE OFFICER. A Sheriff, deputy sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, member
of the organized police department of a municipal corporation, or township
constable, who is employed by a political subdivision of this state; a member
of a police force employed by a metropolitan housing authority under R.C. §
3735.31(D); a member of a police force employed by a regional transit authority
under R.C. § 306.35(Y); a state university law enforcement officer appointed
under R.C. § 3345.04; a veterans’ home police officer appointed under R.C. §
5907.02; a special police officer employed by a port authority under R.C. §
4582.04 or 4582.28; an officer, agent, or employee of the state or any of its
agencies, instrumentalities, or political subdivisions, upon whom, by statute,
a duty to conserve the peace or to enforce all or certain laws is imposed and
the authority to arrest violators is conferred, within limits of that statutory
duty and authority; or a state highway patrol trooper whose primary duties are
to preserve the peace, to protect life and property, and to enforce the laws,
ordinances, or rules of the state or any of its political subdivisions.
      PRIVATE POLICE OFFICER. Means any security guard, special police officer,
private detective, or other person who is privately employed in a police
capacity.
   (B)   No person shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, by impersonating a peace officer, private police officer,
investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and Investigation, or
federal law enforcement officer, shall arrest or detain any person, search any
person, or search the property of any person.
   (D)   No person, with purpose to commit or facilitate the commission of an
offense, shall impersonate a peace officer, private police officer, federal law
enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the municipality or the
state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal Identification and
Investigation.
   (E)   No person shall commit a felony while impersonating a peace officer,
private police officer, federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or
employee of the municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of
Criminal Identification and Investigation.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) of this
section that the impersonation of the peace officer, private police officer,
federal law enforcement officer, an officer, agent or employee of the
municipality or of the state, or investigator of the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation was for a lawful purpose.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the purpose of a
violation of division (D) of this section is to commit or facilitate the
commission of a felony, a violation of division (D) is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. Whoever violates division (E) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.51)
Cross-reference:
    Personating an officer (fraud offense), see §
131.28
§ 132.13 SAFETY OF CROWDS ATTENDING LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CONCERT. Means a musical performance of which the primary component is a
presentation by persons singing or playing musical instruments, that is
intended by its sponsors mainly, but not necessarily exclusively, for the
listening enjoyment of the audience, and that is held in a facility. The term
does not include any performance in which music is a part of the presentation
and the primary component of which is acting, dancing, a motion picture, a
demonstration of skills or talent other than singing or playing an instrument,
an athletic event, an exhibition or a speech.
      FACILITY. Means any structure that has a roof or partial roof and that
has walls that wholly surround the area on all sides, including but not limited
to a stadium, hall, arena, armory, auditorium, ballroom, exhibition hall,
convention center or music hall.
      LIVE ENTERTAINMENT PERFORMANCE. Means any live speech; any live musical
performance, including a concert; any live dramatic performance; any live
variety show; and any other live performance with respect to which the primary
intent of the audience can be construed to be viewing the performers. The term
does not include any form of entertainment with respect to which the person
purchasing a ticket routinely participates in amusements as well as views
performers.
      PERSON. Includes, in addition to an individual or entity specified in
R.C. § 1.59(C), any governmental entity.
      RESTRICTED ENTERTAINMENT AREA. Means any wholly or partially enclosed
area, whether indoors or outdoors, that has limited access through established
entrances or established turnstiles or similar devices.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or offer in return for a
donation, any ticket that is not numbered and that does not correspond to a
specific seat for admission to either of the following:
         (a)   A live entertainment performance that is not exempted under
division (D) of this section, that is held in a restricted entertainment area,
and for which more than 8,000 tickets are offered to the public;
         (b)   A concert that is not exempted under division (D) of this
section and for which more than 3,000 tickets are offered to the public.
      (2)   No person shall advertise any live entertainment performance as
described in division (B)(1)(a) of this section or any concert as described in
division (B)(1)(b) of this section, unless the advertisement contains the words
“Reserved Seats Only”.
   (C)   Unless exempted by division (D)(1) of this section, no person who owns
or operates any restricted entertainment area shall fail to open, maintain and
properly staff at least the number of entrances designated under division (E)
of this section for a minimum of 90 minutes prior to the scheduled start of any
live entertainment performance that is held in the restricted entertainment
area and for which more than 3,000 tickets are sold, offered for sale or
offered in return for a donation.
   (D)   (1)   A live entertainment performance, other than a concert, is
exempted from the provisions of divisions (B) and (C) of this section if both
of the following apply:
         (a)   The restricted entertainment area in which the performance is
held has at least eight entrances or, if both entrances and separate admission
turnstiles or similar devices are used, has at least eight turnstiles or
similar devices.
         (b)   The eight entrances or, if applicable, the eight turnstiles or
similar devices, are opened, maintained and properly staffed at least one hour
prior to the scheduled start of the performance.
      (2)   (a)   The officer responsible for public safety in the municipality
may, upon application of the sponsor of a concert covered by division (B) of
this section, exempt the concert from the provisions of that division if such
officer finds that the health, safety and welfare of the participants and
spectators would not be substantially affected by failure to comply with the
provisions of that division. In determining whether to grant an exemption, the
officer shall consider the following factors: the size and design of the
facility in which the concert is scheduled; the size, age and anticipated
conduct of the crowd expected to attend the concert; and the ability of the
sponsor to manage and control the expected crowd. If the sponsor of any concert
desires to obtain an exemption under this division, the sponsor shall apply to
the appropriate official on a form prescribed by that official. The official
shall issue an order that grants or denies the exemption within five days after
receipt of the application. The sponsor may appeal any order that denies an
exemption to the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the facility is
located.
         (b)   If an official grants an exemption under division (D)(2)(a) of
this section, the official shall designate an on-duty law enforcement officer
to be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue
orders to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the participants and spectators.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (D)(2) of this section, in the case of a
concert held in a facility located on the campus of an educational institution
covered by R.C. § 3345.04, a state university law enforcement officer appointed
pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall do both of the following:
         (a)   Exercise the authority to grant exemptions provided by division
(D)(2)(a) of this section in lieu of an official designated in that division;
         (b)   If the officer grants an exemption under division (D)(3)(a) of
this section, designate an on-duty state university law enforcement officer to
be present at the concert. The designated officer has authority to issue orders
to all security personnel at the concert to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the participants and spectators.
   (E)   (1)   Unless a live entertainment performance is exempted by division
(D)(1) of this section, the officer responsible for public safety within the
municipality shall designate, for purposes of division (C) of this section, the
minimum number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed at
each live entertainment performance so as to permit crowd control and reduce
congestion at the entrances. The designation shall be based on such factors as
the size and nature of the crowd expected to attend the live entertainment
performance, the length of time prior to the live entertainment performance
that crowds are expected to congregate at the entrances and the amount of
security provided at the restricted entertainment area.
      (2)   Notwithstanding division (E)(1) of this section, a state university
law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to R.C. §§ 3345.04 and 3345.21 shall
designate the number of entrances required to be opened, maintained and staffed
in the case of a live entertainment performance that is held at a restricted
entertainment area located on the campus of an educational institution covered
by R.C. § 3345.04.
   (F)   No person shall enter into any contract for a live entertainment
performance that does not permit or require compliance with this section.
   (G)   (1)   This section does not apply to a live entertainment performance
held in a restricted entertainment area if one admission ticket entitles the
holder to view or participate in three or more different games, rides,
activities or live entertainment performances occurring simultaneously at
different sites within the restricted entertainment area and if the initial
admittance entrance to the restricted entertainment area, for which the ticket
is required, is separate from the entrance to any specific live entertainment
performance and an additional ticket is not required for admission to the
particular live entertainment performance.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a symphony orchestra performance, a
ballet performance, horse races, dances or fairs.
   (H)   This section does not prohibit the Legislative Authority from imposing
additional requirements, not in conflict with the section, for the promotion or
holding of live entertainment performances.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (B), (C) or (F) of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If any individual suffers physical harm to
the individual’s person as a result of a violation of this section, the
sentencing court shall consider this factor in favor of imposing a term of
imprisonment upon the offender.
(R.C. § 2917.40)
§ 132.14 MISCONDUCT INVOLVING A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEM means a county
transit system operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.01 through 306.13, a
regional transit authority operated in accordance with R.C. §§ 306.30 through
306.71, or a regional transit commission operated in accordance with R.C. §§
306.80 through 306.90.
   (B)   No person shall evade the payment of the known fares of a public
transportation system.
   (C)   No person shall alter any transfer, pass, ticket or token of a public
transportation system with the purpose of evading the payment of fares or of
defrauding the system.
   (D)   No person shall do any of the following while in any facility or on
any vehicle of a public transportation system:
      (1)   Play sound equipment without the proper use of a private earphone;
      (2)   Smoke, eat or drink in any area where the activity is clearly
marked as being prohibited; or
      (3)   Expectorate upon a person, facility or vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall write, deface, draw or otherwise mark on any facility
or vehicle of a public transportation system.
   (F)   No person shall fail to comply with a lawful order of a public
transportation system police officer, and no person shall resist, obstruct or
abuse a public transportation police officer in the performance of the
officer’s duties.
   (G)   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section is guilty of
misconduct involving a public transportation system.
      (1)   A violation of division (B), (C), or (F) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a minor misdemeanor
on a first offense. If a person previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of any division of this section or of a municipal
ordinance that is substantially equivalent to any division of this section, a
violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (E) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 75% of each fine paid to
satisfy a sentence imposed for a violation of any of the provisions of this
section shall be deposited into the treasury of the County and 25% shall be
deposited with the county transit board, regional transit authority or regional
transit commission that operates the public transportation system involved in
the violation, unless the Board of County Commissioners operates the public
transportation system, in which case 100% of each fine shall be deposited into
the treasury of the County.
(R.C. § 2917.41)
§ 132.15 IMPEDING PUBLIC PASSAGE OF AN EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall recklessly obstruct any
highway, street, sidewalk or any other public passage in such a manner as to
render the highway, street, sidewalk or passage impassable without unreasonable
inconvenience or hazard if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The obstruction prevents an emergency vehicle from accessing a
highway or street, prevents an emergency service responder from responding to
an emergency or prevents an emergency vehicle or an emergency service responder
from having access to an exit from an emergency; and
      (2)   Upon receipt of a request or order from an emergency service
responder to remove or cease the obstruction, the person refuses to remove or
cease the obstruction.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not limit or affect the application
of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code. Any conduct
that is a violation of division (A) of this section and that also is a
violation of R.C. § 2921.31 or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may
be prosecuted under this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code or
both sections.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawfully impeding public
passage of an emergency service responder, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 2921.13.
(R.C. § 2917.14)
CHAPTER 133: SEX OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Unlawful sexual conduct with a minor
   
133.03   Sexual imposition
   
133.04   Public indecency
   
133.05   Voyeurism
   
133.06   Polygraph examinations for victims: restrictions on use
   
133.07   Procuring; engagement in sexual activity for hire
   
133.08   Soliciting; loitering to engage in
   
133.09   Prostitution
   
133.10   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.11   Displaying matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.12   Deception to obtain matter harmful to juveniles
   
133.13   Rules of evidence
   
133.14   Declaratory judgment
   
133.15   Injunction; abatement of nuisance
   
133.16   Unlawful operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct
   
133.17   Juveniles on the premises of adult entertainment establishments
prohibited
   
133.18   Sexually oriented businesses; illegal operation and activity
   
133.19   Unlawful advertising of massage
   
133.20   Nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images
 
   
133.99   Sentencing for sexually oriented offenses; sexual predators;
registration
Statutory reference:
   Assistance to victims of sexual assault, see R.C. §§ 2907.28 et seq.
   Child victim, disposition of, see R.C. § 2945.481
   Suppression of information at trial, see R.C. § 2907.11
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings ascribed to them respectively.
   HARMFUL TO JUVENILES. That quality of any material or performance describing
or representing nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-masochistic
abuse in any form to which all of the following apply:
      (1)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, appeals to
the prurient interest of juveniles in sex.
      (2)   The material or performance is patently offensive to prevailing
standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable
for juveniles.
      (3)   The material or performance, when considered as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political, and scientific value for juveniles.
   JUVENILE. Any unmarried person under 18 years of age.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, poster, print, picture,
figure, image, description, motion picture film, video cassette, laser disc,
phonograph record, cassette tape, compact disc, or other tangible thing capable
of arousing interest through sight, sound, or touch and includes an image or
text appearing on a computer monitor, television screen, liquid crystal
display, or similar display device or an image or text recorded on a computer
hard disk, computer floppy disk, compact disk, magnetic tape, or similar data
storage device.
   MENTAL HEALTH CLIENT OR PATIENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.51.
   MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.115.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   NUDITY. The showing, representation, or depiction of human male or female
genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full, opaque covering, or of
a female breast with less than a full, opaque covering of any portion thereof
below the top of the nipple, or of covered male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state.
   OBSCENE. When considered as a whole, and judged with reference to ordinary
adults or, if it is designed for sexual deviates or other specially susceptible
group, judged with reference to that group, any material or performance is
“obscene” if any of the following apply:
      (1)   Its dominant appeal is to prurient interest.
      (2)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
sexual activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, or nudity in a way that tends
to represent human beings as mere objects of sexual appetite.
      (3)   Its dominant tendency is to arouse lust by displaying or depicting
bestiality or extreme or bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality.
      (4)   Its dominant tendency is to appeal to scatological interest by
displaying or depicting human bodily functions of elimination in a way that
inspires disgust or revulsion in persons with ordinary sensibilities, without
serving any genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or artistic
purpose.
      (5)   It contains a series of displays or descriptions of sexual
activity, masturbation, sexual excitement, nudity, bestiality, extreme or
bizarre violence, cruelty, or brutality, or human bodily functions of
elimination, the cumulative effect of which is a dominant tendency to appeal to
prurient or scatological interest, when the appeal to such an interest is
primarily for its own sake or for commercial exploitation, rather than
primarily for a genuine scientific, educational, sociological, moral, or
artistic purpose.
   PERFORMANCE. Any motion picture, preview, trailer, play, show, skit, dance,
or other exhibition performed before an audience.
   PLACE WHERE A PERSON HAS A REASONABLE EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY. A place where
a reasonable person would believe that the person could fully disrobe in
private.
   PRIVATE AREA. The genitals, pubic area, buttocks or female breast below the
top of the areola, where nude or covered by an undergarment.
   PROSTITUTE. A male or female who promiscuously engages in sexual activity
for hire, regardless of whether the hire is paid to the prostitute or to
another.
   SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Sexual conduct or sexual contact, or both.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Vaginal intercourse between a male and female; anal
intercourse, fellatio, and cunnilingus between persons regardless of sex; and,
without privilege to do so, the insertion, however slight, of any part of the
body or any instrument, apparatus, or other object into the vaginal or anal
opening of another. Penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete
vaginal or anal intercourse.
   SEXUAL CONTACT. Any touching of an erogenous zone of another, including
without limitation the thigh, genitals, buttock, pubic region, or, if the
person is a female, a breast, for the purpose of sexually arousing or
gratifying either person.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SPOUSE. A person married to an offender at the time of an alleged offense,
except that such person shall not be considered the spouse when any of the
following apply:
      (1)   When the parties have entered into a written separation agreement
pursuant to R.C. § 3103.06.
      (2)   When an action is pending between the parties for annulment,
divorce, dissolution of marriage, or legal separation.
      (3)   In the case of an action for legal separation, after the effective
date of the judgment for legal separation.
(R.C. § 2907.01)
§ 133.02 UNLAWFUL SEXUAL CONDUCT WITH A MINOR.
   (A)    No person who is 18 years of age or older shall engage in sexual
conduct with another when the offender knows the other person is 13 years of
age or older but less than 16 years of age, or the offender is reckless in that
regard.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful sexual conduct
with a minor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(2), unlawful sexual
conduct with a minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) of this section, if
the offender is less than four years older than the other person, unlawful
sexual conduct with a minor is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty
to a violation of R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03 or 2907.04, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, or a violation of former R.C. § 2907.12, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, unlawful sexual conduct with a
minor is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.04)
§ 133.03 SEXUAL IMPOSITION.
   (A)    No person shall have sexual contact with another; cause another to
have sexual contact with the offender; or cause two or more other persons to
have sexual contact when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The offender knows that the sexual contact is offensive to the
other person, or one of the other persons, or is reckless in that regard.
      (2)   The offender knows that the other person’s, or one of the other
person’s ability to appraise the nature of or control the offender’s or
touching person’s conduct is substantially impaired.
      (3)   The offender knows that the other person, or one of the other
persons, submits because of being unaware of the sexual contact.
      (4)   The other person, or one of the other persons, is 13 years of age
or older but less than 16 years of age, whether or not the offender knows the
age of the person, and the offender is at least 18 years of age and four or
more years older than the other person.
      (5)   The offender is a mental health professional, the other person or
one of the other persons is a mental health client or patient of the offender,
and the offender induces the other person who is the client or patient to
submit by falsely representing to the other person who is the client or patient
that the sexual contact is necessary for mental health treatment purposes.
   (B)   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section solely
upon the victim’s testimony unsupported by other evidence.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of sexual imposition, a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, R.C. § 2907.02, 2907.03,
2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to three or more violations of this section, R.C. § 2907.02,
2907.03, 2907.04, 2907.05, 2907.06, former R.C. § 2907.12, or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any combination of those
sections, a violation of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree and,
notwithstanding the range of jail terms prescribed in R.C. § 2929.24, the court
may impose on the offender a definite jail term of not more than one year.
(R.C. § 2907.06)
Statutory reference:
   Gross sexual imposition, felony, see R.C. § 2907.05
   Notice to licensing board or agency upon indictment, conviction or guilty
plea of mental health professional, see R.C. §§ 2907.17 and 2907.18
§ 133.04 PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following, under
circumstances in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and
affront others who are in the person’s physical proximity and who are not
members of the person’s household:
      (1)   Expose the persons’s private parts.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following, under circumstances
in which the person’s conduct is likely to be viewed by and affront another
person who is in the person’s physical proximity, who is a minor, and who is
not the spouse of the offender:
      (1)   Engage in masturbation.
      (2)   Engage in sexual conduct.
      (3)   Engage in conduct that to an ordinary observer would appear to be
sexual conduct or masturbation.
      (4)   Expose the person’s private parts with the purpose of personal
sexual arousal or gratification or to lure the minor into sexual activity.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public indecency and
shall be punished as provided in divisions (C)(2), (C)(3), (C)(4), and (C)(5)
of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(2), a violation
of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to one
violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the third degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by the
offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more
violations of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, a violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the first degree or, if any person who was likely to view and be affronted by
the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(3), a violation
of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to
one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the second degree or, if any person who was likely to view
and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or a substantially equivalent
state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or (A)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if any person who was
likely to view and be affronted by the offender’s conduct was a minor, a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(4), a violation
of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to one violation of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two or more violations of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) of this section is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C)(5), a violation
of division (B)(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation of
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (B)(4) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
   (D)   (1)   If either of the following applies, the court may determine at
the time of sentencing whether to classify the offender as a tier I sex
offender/child-victim offender for a violation of division (B)(4) of this
section:
         (a)   The offender is less than ten years older than the other person.
         (b)   The offender is ten or more years older than the other person
and the offender has not previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any
violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance.
      (2)   If the offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (B)(4) of this section, is ten or more years older than the other
person, and previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to any violation
of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the court shall issue an order at the time of sentencing that
classifies the offender as a tier I sex offender/child-victim offender subject
to registration under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and 2950.06.
(R.C. § 2907.09)
   (E)   A mother is entitled to breast-feed her baby in any location of a
place of public accommodation, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, wherein the mother
otherwise is permitted.
(R.C. § 3781.55)
Statutory reference:
   Bail considerations for persons charged, see R.C. § 2907.41
§ 133.05 VOYEURISM.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of sexually arousing or gratifying himself
or herself, shall commit trespass or otherwise surreptitiously invade the
privacy of another, to spy or eavesdrop upon another.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream or otherwise
record another person, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation
of privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of that person.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly commit trespass or otherwise secretly or
surreptitiously videotape, film, photograph, broadcast, stream or otherwise
record a minor, in a place where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy, for the purpose of viewing the private areas of the minor.
   (D)   No person shall secretly or surreptitiously videotape, film,
photograph or otherwise record another person above, under or through the
clothing being worn by that other person for the purpose of viewing the body
of, or the undergarments worn by, that other person.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of voyeurism.
      (1)   A violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
      (2)   A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (3)   A violation of division (D) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
      (4)   A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.08)
§ 133.06 POLYGRAPH EXAMINATIONS FOR VICTIMS: RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   (1)   A peace officer, prosecutor, other public official, defendant,
defendant’s attorney, alleged juvenile offender or alleged juvenile offender’s
attorney shall not ask or require a victim of an alleged sex offense to submit
to a polygraph examination as a condition for proceeding with the investigation
or prosecution of the alleged sex offense.
      (2)   The refusal of the victim of an alleged sex offense to submit to a
polygraph examination shall not prevent the investigation of the alleged sex
offense, the filing of criminal charges with respect to the alleged sex
offense, or the prosecution of the alleged perpetrator of the alleged sex
offense.
   (B)   As used in this section:
      ALLEGED JUVENILE OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.51.
      POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION. Means any mechanical or electrical instrument or
device of any type used or allegedly used to examine, test, or question an
individual for the purpose of determining the individual’s truthfulness.
      PROSECUTION. Means the prosecution of criminal charges in a criminal
prosecution or the prosecution of a delinquent child complaint in a delinquency
proceeding.
      PROSECUTOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 117.01.
      SEX OFFENSE. Means a violation of any provision of §§
133.02 to
133.05 or R.C. §§ 2907.02 to 2907.09.
(R.C. § 2907.10)
§ 133.07 PROCURING; ENGAGEMENT IN SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE.
   (A)   Procuring.
      (1)   No person, knowingly and for gain, shall do either of the
following:
         (a)   Entice or solicit another to patronize a prostitute or brothel;
         (b)   Procure a prostitute for another to patronize, or take or direct
another at the other’s request to any place for the purpose of patronizing a
prostitute.
      (2)   No person, having authority or responsibility over the use of
premises, shall knowingly permit the premises to be used for the purpose of
engaging in sexual activity for hire.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of procuring. Except as otherwise provided in this division, procuring
is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the prostitute who is procured,
patronized, or otherwise involved in a violation of division (A)(1)(b) of this
section is under 18 years of age at the time of the violation, regardless of
whether the offender who violates division (A)(1)(b) of this section knows the
prostitute’s age, or if a prostitute who engages in sexual activity for hire in
premises used in violation of division (A)(2) of this section is under 18 years
of age at the time of the violation, regardless of whether the offender who
violates division (A)(2) of this section knows the prostitute’s age, procuring
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.23)
   (B)   Engagement in sexual activity for hire.
      (1)   As used in this division (B):
         PERSON WITH A DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2905.32.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE. An implicit or explicit agreement to provide
sexual activity in exchange for anything of value paid to the person engaging
in such sexual activity, to any person trafficking that person or to any person
associated with either such person.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person.
      (3)   No person shall recklessly induce, entice or procure another to
engage in sexual activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything
of value to the other person if the other person is a person with a
developmental disability and the offender knows or has reasonable cause to
believe that the other person is a person with a developmental disability.
      (4)    Whoever violates division (B)(2) of this section is guilty of
engaging in prostitution, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates
division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of engaging in prostitution with a
person with a developmental disability, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. In sentencing an offender under this division for a
violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court shall require the
offender to attend an education or treatment program aimed at preventing
persons from inducing, enticing, or procuring another to engage in sexual
activity for hire in exchange for the person giving anything of value to the
other person. Notwithstanding the fine specified in R.C. § 2929.28(A)(2)(a) for
a misdemeanor of the first degree, in sentencing an offender under this
division for a violation of division (B)(2) of this section, the court may
impose upon the offender a fine of not more than $1,500.
(R.C. § 2907.231)
§ 133.08 SOLICITING; LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly solicit another to engage in sexual activity
for hire in exchange for the person receiving anything of value from the other
person.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (A) of this section.
   (C)   As used in division (A) of this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY FOR HIRE
means an implicit or explicit agreement to provide sexual activity in exchange
for anything of value paid to the person engaging in such sexual activity, to
any person trafficking that person, or to any person associated with either
such person.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
soliciting. Soliciting is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.24)
   (E)   No person, with purpose to solicit another to engage in sexual
activity for hire and while in or near a public place, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Beckon to, stop or attempt to stop another;
      (2)   Engage or attempt to engage another in conversation;
      (3)   Stop or attempt to stop the operator of a vehicle or approach a
stationary vehicle;
      (4)   If the offender is the operator of or a passenger in a vehicle,
stop, attempt to stop, beckon to, attempt to beckon to, or entice another to
approach or enter the vehicle of which the offender is the operator or in which
the offender is the passenger;
      (5)   Interfere with the free passage of another.
   (F)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in conduct in violation of division (E) of this section.
   (G)   As used in division (E) of this section:
      PUBLIC PLACE. Means any of the following:
         (a)   A street, road, highway, thoroughfare, bikeway, walkway,
sidewalk, bridge, alley, alleyway, plaza, park, driveway, parking lot or
transportation facility.
         (b)   A doorway or entrance way to a building that fronts on a place
described in division (a) of this definition.
         (c)   A place not described in division (a) or (b) of this definition
that is open to the public.
      VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
   (H)   (1)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (F) of this section is guilty of
loitering to engage in solicitation after a positive HIV test, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.241)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.09 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in sexual activity for hire.
   (B)   No person, with knowledge that the person has tested positive as a
carrier of a virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, shall engage
in sexual activity for hire.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
prostitution, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of engaging
in prostitution after a positive HIV test, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.25)
Statutory reference:
   Testing offenders for venereal disease and AIDS, see R.C. § 2907.27
§ 133.10 DISSEMINATING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, with knowledge of its character or content, shall
recklessly do any of following:
      (1)   Directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit,
rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles;
      (2)   Directly offer or agree to sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law
enforcement officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement
officers posing as juveniles any material or performance that is obscene or
harmful to juveniles;
      (3)   While in the physical proximity of the juvenile or law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, allow any juvenile or law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile to review or peruse any material or view any live
performance that is harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under this section
that involves material or a performance that is harmful to juveniles but not
obscene:
      (1)   The defendant is the parent, guardian, or spouse of the juvenile
involved.
      (2)   The juvenile involved, at the time of the conduct in question, was
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who, with knowledge of its
character, consented to the material or performance being furnished or
presented to the juvenile.
      (3)   The juvenile exhibited to the defendant or his or her agent or
employee a draft card, driver’s license, birth record, marriage license, or
other official or apparently official document purporting to show that the
juvenile was 18 years of age or over or married, and the person to whom the
document was exhibited did not otherwise have reasonable cause to believe that
the juvenile was under the age of 18 and unmarried.
   (C)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section,
involving material or a performance that is obscene or harmful to juveniles,
that the material or performance was furnished or presented for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, governmental, judicial, or other proper
purpose, by a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher,
librarian, clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other proper person.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) of this section, mistake of
age is not a defense to a charge under this section.
   (D)   (1)   A person directly sells, delivers, furnishes, disseminates,
provides, exhibits, rents, or presents or directly offers or agrees to sell,
deliver, furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present material or a
performance to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement officer
posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section by means of an electronic method of
remotely transmitting information if the person knows or has reason to believe
that the person receiving the information is a juvenile or the group of persons
receiving the information are juveniles.
      (2)   A person remotely transmitting information by means of a method of
mass distribution does not directly sell, deliver, furnish, disseminate,
provide, exhibit, rent, or present or directly offer or agree to sell, deliver,
furnish, disseminate, provide, exhibit, rent, or present the material or
performance in question to a juvenile, a group of juveniles, a law enforcement
officer posing as a juvenile, or a group of law enforcement officers posing as
juveniles in violation of this section if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person has inadequate information to know or have reason to
believe that a particular recipient of the information or offer is a juvenile.
         (b)   The method of mass distribution does not provide the person the
ability to prevent a particular recipient from receiving the information.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of disseminating matter
harmful to juveniles. If the material or performance involved is harmful to
juveniles except as otherwise provided in this division, a violation of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the material or performance
involved is obscene, violation of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2907.31)
   (F)   Presumptions, notice and defense.
      (1)   An owner or manager, or agent or employee of an owner or manager,
of a bookstore, newsstand, theater, or other commercial establishment engaged
in selling material or exhibiting performances, who, in the course of business
does any of the acts prohibited by this section is presumed to have knowledge
of the character of the material or performance involved if the owner, manager,
or agent or employee of the owner or manager has actual notice of the nature of
such material or performance, whether or not the owner, manager, or agent or
employee of the owner or manager has precise knowledge of its contents.
      (2)   Without limitation on the manner in which such notice may be given,
actual notice of the character of material or a performance may be given in
writing by the chief legal officer of the municipality. Such notice, regardless
of the manner in which it is given, shall identify the sender, identify the
material or performance involved, state whether it is obscene or harmful to
juveniles, and bear the date of such notice.
      (3)   This §
133.10 does not apply to a motion picture operator or projectionist acting
within the scope of employment as an employee of the owner or manager of the
theater or other place for the showing of motion pictures to the general
public, and having no managerial responsibility or financial interest in the
operator’s or projectionist’s place of employment, other than wages.
      (4)   (a)   The provisions of §§
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12(A) do not apply to a person solely because the person provided access or
connection to or from an electronic method of remotely transferring information
not under that person’s control, including having provided capabilities that
are incidental to providing access or connection to or from the electronic
method of remotely transferring the information, and that do not include the
creation of the content of the material that is the subject of the access or
connection.
         (b)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of §
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12 or who knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
         (c)   Division (F)(4)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who provides access or connection to an electronic method of remotely
transferring information that is engaged in the violation of §
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12 and that contain content that person has selected and introduced into
the electronic method of remotely transferring information or content over
which that person exercises editorial control.
      (5)   An employer is not guilty of a violation of §
133.10,
133.11 and
133.12 based on the actions of an employee or agent of the employer unless the
employee’s or agent’s conduct is within the scope of the employee’s or agent’s
employment or agency, and the employer does either of the following:
         (a)   With knowledge of the employee’s or agent’s conduct, the
employer authorizes or ratifies the conduct.
         (b)   The employer recklessly disregards the employee’s or agent’s
conduct.
      (6)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under §
133.10 or
133.11 as the section applies to an image transmitted through the internet or
other electronic method of remotely transmitting information that the person
charged with violating the section has taken, in good faith, reasonable,
effective, and appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by juveniles to material that is harmful to juveniles, including
any method that is feasible under available technology.
(R.C. § 2907.35)
§ 133.11 DISPLAYING MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character or content of the material
involved, shall display at the establishment any material that is harmful to
juveniles and that is open to view by juveniles as part of the invited general
public.
   (B)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section if the material
in question is displayed by placing it behind “blinder racks” or similar
devices that cover at least the lower two-thirds of the material, if the
material in question is wrapped or placed behind the counter, or if the
material in question otherwise is covered or located so that the portion that
is harmful to juveniles is not open to the view of juveniles.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of displaying matter harmful
to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day during which the
offender is in violation of this section constitutes a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2907.311)
Cross-reference:
    Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
§ 133.12 DECEPTION TO OBTAIN MATTER HARMFUL TO JUVENILES.
   (A)   No person, for the purpose of enabling a juvenile to obtain any
material or gain admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles,
shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is the parent, guardian, or spouse
of the juvenile.
      (2)   Furnish the juvenile with any identification or document purporting
to show that the juvenile is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (B)   No juvenile, for the purpose of obtaining any material or gaining
admission to any performance which is harmful to juveniles, shall do either of
the following:
      (1)   Falsely represent that he or she is 18 years of age or over or
married.
      (2)   Exhibit any identification or document purporting to show that he
or she is 18 years of age or over or married.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of deception to obtain matter
harmful to juveniles, a misdemeanor of the second degree. A juvenile who
violates division (B) of this section shall be adjudged an unruly child, with
the disposition of the case as may be appropriate under R.C. Chapter 2151.
(R.C. § 2907.33)
Cross-reference:
   Presumptions, notice and defense, see §
133.10(F)
Statutory reference:
   Juvenile Court, see R.C. Chapter 2151
§ 133.13 RULES OF EVIDENCE.
   (A)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a place is a
brothel, evidence as to the reputation of such place and as to the reputation
of the persons who inhabit or frequent it is admissible on the question of
whether such place is or is not a brothel.
   (B)   In any case in which it is necessary to prove that a person is a
prostitute, evidence as to the reputation of such person is admissible on the
question of whether such person is or is not a prostitute.
   (C)   In any prosecution for a violation of §§
133.07 through
133.09, proof of a prior conviction of the accused of any such offense or
substantially equivalent offense is admissible in support of the charge.
   (D)   The prohibition contained in R.C. § 2317.02(D) against testimony by a
husband or wife concerning communications between them does not apply, and the
accused’s spouse may testify concerning any such communication in any of the
following cases:
      (1)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.07 and the spouse testifying was the prostitute involved in the offense or
the person who used the offender’s premises to engage in sexual activity for
hire;
      (2)   When the husband or wife is charged with a violation of §
133.08(A) or §
133.09.
(R.C. § 2907.26)
§ 133.14 DECLARATORY JUDGMENT.
   (A)   Without limitation on the persons otherwise entitled to bring an
action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2721, involving the
same issue, the following persons have standing to bring a declaratory judgment
action to determine whether particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles:
      (1)   The chief legal officer of the municipality if and when there is
reasonable cause to believe that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated;
      (2)   Any person who, pursuant to R.C. § 2907.35(B) or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, has received notice in writing from the chief
legal officer stating that particular materials or performances are obscene or
harmful to juveniles.
   (B)   Any party to an action for a declaratory judgment pursuant to division
(A) of this section is entitled, upon the party’s request, to trial on the
merits within five days after joinder of the issues, and the court shall render
judgment within five days after trial is concluded.
   (C)   An action for a declaratory judgement pursuant to division (A) of this
section shall not be brought during the pendency of any civil action or
criminal prosecution when the character of the particular materials or
performances involved is at issue in the pending case, and either of the
following applies:
      (1)   Either of the parties to the action for a declaratory judgment is a
party to the pending case;
      (2)   A judgment in the pending case will necessarily constitute res
judicata as to the character of the materials or performances involved.
   (D)   A civil action or criminal prosecution in which the character of
particular materials or performances is at issue, brought during the pendency
of an action for a declaratory judgment involving the same issue, shall be
stayed during the pendency of the action for a declaratory judgment.
   (E)   The fact that a violation of R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, occurs prior to a judicial
determination of the character of the material or performance involved in the
violation does not relieve the offender of criminal liability for the
violation, even though prosecution may be stayed pending the judicial
determination.
(R.C. § 2907.36)
§ 133.15 INJUNCTION; ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   (A)   Where it appears that R.C. § 2907.31 or R.C. § 2907.32, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, is being or is about to be
violated, the chief legal officer of the municipality may bring an action to
enjoin the violation. The defendant, upon his or her request, is entitled to
trial on the merits within five days after the joinder of the issues, and the
court shall render judgment within five days after the trial is concluded.
   (B)   Premises used or occupied for repeated violations of R.C. § 2907.31 or
R.C. § 2907.32, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2907.37)
Statutory reference:
   Disseminating matter harmful to juveniles, felony, see R.C. § 2907.31
   Pandering obscenity, felony, see R.C. § 2907.32
§ 133.16 UNLAWFUL OPERATION OF VIEWING BOOTHS DEPICTING SEXUAL CONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Means an entity that is open to the public and
to which either of the following applies:
         (a)   It has a substantial or significant portion of its stock in
trade of the sale, rental, or viewing of visual materials or performances
depicting sexual conduct.
         (b)   It has as a principal business purpose the sale, rental, or
viewing of visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct.
      VISUAL MATERIALS OR PERFORMANCES. Means films, videos, CD-ROM discs,
streaming video, or other motion pictures.
   (B)   No person who has custody, control, or supervision of a commercial
establishment, with knowledge of the character of the visual material or
performance involved, shall knowingly permit the use of, or offer the use of,
viewing booths, stalls, or partitioned portions of a room located in the
commercial establishment for the purpose of viewing visual materials or
performances depicting sexual conduct unless both of the following apply:
      (1)   The inside of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is visible
from, and at least one side of each booth, stall, or partitioned room is open
to, a continuous and contiguous main aisle or hallway that is open to the
public areas of the commercial establishment and is not obscured by any
curtain, door, or other covering or enclosure.
      (2)   No booth, stall, or partitioned room is designed, constructed,
pandered, or allowed to be used for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating
nudity or sexual activity on the part of or between patrons or members of the
public, and no booth, stall, or partitioned room has any aperture, hole, or
opening for the purpose of encouraging or facilitating nudity or sexual
activity.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that
either of the following applies to the involved visual materials or
performances:
      (1)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct are
disseminated or presented for a bona fide medical, scientific, educational,
religious, governmental, judicial, or other proper purpose and by or to a
physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist, teacher, person pursuing bona
fide studies or research, librarian, member of the clergy, prosecutor, judge,
or other person having a proper interest in the visual materials or
performances.
      (2)   The visual materials or performances depicting sexual conduct,
taken as a whole, would be found by a reasonable person to have serious
literary, artistic, political, or scientific value or are presented or
disseminated in good faith for a serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific purpose and are not pandered for their prurient appeal.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting unlawful
operation of viewing booths depicting sexual conduct, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 2907.38)
§ 133.17 JUVENILES ON THE PREMISES OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT ARCADE. Means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
in which coin-operated, slug-operated, or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other
image-producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five or
fewer persons per machine at any one time, and in which the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
         (a)   Means a commercial establishment that, for any form of
consideration, has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock-in-
trade in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues from,
devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental of any of the following:
            1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or
other visual representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the
exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas;
            2.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for
use or marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of self or others.
         (b)   Includes a commercial establishment as defined in R.C. §
2907.38. An establishment may have other principal business purposes that do
not involve the offering for sale, rental, or viewing of materials exhibiting
or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty store, or adult video
store. The existence of other principal business purposes does not exempt an
establishment from being categorized as an adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, or adult video store so long as one of its principal business purposes
is offering for sale or rental, for some form of consideration, such materials
that exhibit or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Means a nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle
club, or similar commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages
are served, that regularly features any of the following:
         (a)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity;
         (b)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
         (c)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. Means the sale, rental, or exhibition, for any form
of consideration, of books, films, video cassettes, magazines, periodicals, or
live performances that are characterized by an emphasis on the exposure or
display of specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activity.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. Means an adult arcade, adult
bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion
picture theater, adult theater, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment. An establishment in which a medical practitioner,
psychologist, psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the
state engages in medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not
limited to massage therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not an
“adult entertainment establishment”.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis upon
the exhibition or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas are regularly shown for any form of consideration.
      ADULT THEATER. Means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment that, for any form of consideration, regularly
features persons who appear in a state of nudity or seminudity or live
performances that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
      DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY THEIR EMPHASIS UPON. Means the dominant
or principal character and theme of the object described by this phrase. For
instance, when the phrase refers to films “that are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas”, the films so described are
those whose dominant or principal character and theme are the exhibition or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      NUDE OR SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO. Means any place where a person, who
regularly appears in a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or
any other form of consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons. A modeling
class or studio is not a nude or seminude model studio and is not subject to
this chapter if it is operated in any of the following ways:
         (a)   By a college or university supported entirely or partly by
taxation;
         (b)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs, the credits for which are transferable to a college or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
         (c)   In a structure that has no sign visible from the exterior of the
structure and no other advertising indicating that a person appearing in a
state of nudity or seminudity is available for viewing, if in order to
participate in a class in the structure, a student must enroll at least three
days in advance of the class and if not more than one nude or seminude model is
on the premises at any one time.
      NUDITY, NUDE, or STATE OF NUDITY. Means the showing of the human male or
female genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft, or cleavage with less
than a fully opaque covering; or the showing of the female breasts with less
than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple.
      REGULARLY FEATURES or REGULARLY SHOWN. Means a consistent or substantial
course of conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a
substantial portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the
ongoing business of the adult entertainment establishment.
      SEMINUDE or STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Means a state of dress in which opaque
clothing covers not more than the genitals, pubic region, and nipple of the
female breast, as well as portions of the body covered by supporting straps or
devices.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT.
         (a)   Means a business or commercial establishment that, as one of its
principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration a place where
either of the following occur:
            1.   Two or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of engaging in specified sexual activities.
            2.   Two or more persons appear nude or seminude for the purpose of
displaying their nude or seminude bodies for their receipt of consideration or
compensation in any type or form.
         (b)   An establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized therapy, including but not limited to massage
therapy, as regulated pursuant to R.C. § 4731.15, is not a “sexual encounter
establishment”.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Means the cleft of the buttocks, anus, male
or female genitals, or the female breast.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, or actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy;
         (b)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of
the activities described in division (a) of this definition.
   (B)   No person knowingly shall allow an individual, including but not
limited to a patron, customer, or employee, who is under 18 years of age on the
premises of an adult entertainment establishment.
   (C)   No individual who is under 18 years of age knowingly shall show or
give false information concerning the individual’s name or age, or other false
identification, for the purpose of gaining entrance to an adult entertainment
establishment.
   (D)   A person shall not be found guilty of a violation of division (B) of
this section if the person raises as an affirmative defense and if the jury or,
in a nonjury trial, the court finds the person has established by a
preponderance of the evidence, all of the following:
      (1)   The individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment exhibited to an operator, employee, agent, or independent
contractor of the adult entertainment establishment a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and
4507.52 showing that the individual was then at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor made a
bona fide effort to ascertain the true age of the individual gaining entrance
to the adult entertainment establishment by checking the identification
presented, at the time of entrance, to ascertain that the description on the
identification compared with the appearance of the individual and that the
identification had not been altered in any way.
      (3)   The operator, employee, agent, or independent contractor had reason
to believe that the individual gaining entrance to the adult entertainment
establishment was at least 18 years of age.
   (E)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense described in
division (D) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or the
deputy registrar who issued a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an
identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50 and 4507.52 shall be permitted to
submit certified copies of the records, in the Registrar’s or deputy
registrar’s possession, of the issuance of the license or identification card
in question, in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of the Bureau of Motor
Vehicles in the action.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
permitting a juvenile on the premises of an adult entertainment establishment,
a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each day a person violates this division
constitutes a separate offense.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of use by a
juvenile of false information to enter an adult entertainment establishment, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if committed by
an adult.
(R.C. § 2907.39)
§ 133.18 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES; ILLEGAL OPERATION AND ACTIVITY.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. Means a commercial establishment
that has as a significant or substantial portion of its stock in trade or
inventory in, derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues
from, devotes a significant or substantial portion of its interior business or
advertising to, or maintains a substantial section of its sales or display
space for the sale or rental, for any form of consideration, of books,
magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, that are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CABARET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Means a commercial establishment where
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
reproductions that are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas are regularly shown
to more than five individuals for any form of consideration.
      CHARACTERIZED BY. Describing the essential character or quality of an
item.
      EMPLOYEE. Means any individual who performs any service on the premises
of a sexually oriented business on a full-time, part-time, or contract basis,
regardless of whether the individual is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, but does not include an individual exclusively
on the premises for repair or maintenance of the premises or for the delivery
of goods to the premises.
      NUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      OPERATOR. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in operation
the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise overall
operational control of the business premises.
      PATRON. Means any individual on the premises of a sexually oriented
business except for any of the following:
         (a)   An operator or an employee of the sexually oriented business;
         (b)   An individual who is on the premises exclusively for repair or
maintenance of the premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises;
         (c)   A public employee or a volunteer firefighter emergency medical
services worker acting within the scope of the public employee’s or volunteer’s
duties as a public employee or volunteer.
      PREMISES. Means the real property on which the sexually oriented business
is located and all appurtenances to the real property, including, but not
limited, to the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways, and
parking lots or parking garages adjacent to the real property under the
ownership, control, or supervision of the owner or operator of the sexually
oriented business.
      REGULARLY. Means consistently or repeatedly.
      SEMINUDE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      SEXUAL DEVICE. Means any three-dimensional object designed and marketed
for stimulation of the male or female human genitals or anus or female breasts
or for sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others, including but not
limited to dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs, but not including devices primarily intended for
protection against sexually transmitted diseases or for preventing pregnancy.
      SEXUAL DEVICE SHOP. Means a commercial establishment that regularly
features sexual devices, but not including any pharmacy, drug store, medical
clinic, or establishment primarily dedicated to providing medical or healthcare
products or services, and not including any commercial establishment that does
not restrict access to its premises by reason of age.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. Means a business or commercial enterprise that,
as one of its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
individuals of the opposite sex when one or more of the individuals is nude or
seminude.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Means an adult bookstore, adult video store,
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, sexual device shop, or sexual
encounter center, but does not include a business solely by reason of its
showing, selling, or renting materials that may depict sex.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes human genitals, pubic region, and
buttocks and the human female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Means sexual intercourse, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sodomy, or excretory functions as a part of or in connection
with any of these activities.
      STATE OF NUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
      STATE OF SEMINUDITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.39.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business
between 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m. on any day, except that a sexually
oriented business that holds a liquor permit pursuant to R.C. Chapter 4303 may
remain open until the hour specified in that permit if it does not conduct,
offer, or allow sexually oriented entertainment activity in which the
performers appear nude.
   (C)   (1)   No patron who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family
shall knowingly touch any employee while that employee is nude or seminude or
touch the clothing of any employee while that employee is nude or seminude.
      (2)   No employee who regularly appears nude or seminude on the premises
of a sexually oriented business, while on the premises of that sexually
oriented business and while nude or seminude, shall knowingly touch a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or the clothing of a patron
who is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who
is not a member of the employee’s immediate family or allow a patron who is not
a member of the employee’s immediate family or another employee who is not a
member of the employee’s immediate family to touch the employee or the clothing
of the employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
operating a sexually oriented business, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal
sexually oriented activity in a sexually oriented business. If the offender
touches a specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing
covering a specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender does not touch a
specified anatomical area of the patron or employee, or the clothing covering a
specified anatomical area, a violation of division (C) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2907.40)
Statutory reference:
   State indemnification for certain municipal liability stemming from local
adult business regulations, see R.C. § 715.55
§ 133.19 UNLAWFUL ADVERTISING OF MASSAGE.
   (A)   No person, by means of a statement, solicitation, or offer in a print
or electronic publication, sign, placard, storefront display, or other medium,
shall advertise massage, relaxation massage, any other massage technique or
method, or any related service, with the suggestion or promise of sexual
activity.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful advertising of
massage, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (C)   Nothing in this section prevents the municipality from enacting any
regulation of the advertising of massage further than and in addition to the
provisions of divisions (A) and (B) of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL ACTIVITY has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2907.01.
(R.C. § 2927.17)
§ 133.20 NONCONSENSUAL DISSEMINATION OF PRIVATE SEXUAL IMAGES.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      CABLE SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.01.
      DIRECT-TO-HOME SATELLITE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. §
303, as amended.
      DISSEMINATE. Means to post, distribute, or publish on a computer device,
computer network, web site, or other electronic device or medium of
communication.
      IMAGE. Means a photograph, film, videotape, digital recording, or other
depiction or portrayal of a person.
      INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in the
“Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 230, as amended.
      INTERNET PROVIDER. Means a provider of internet service, including all of
the following:
         (a)   Broadband service, however defined or classified by the Federal
Communications Commission;
         (b)   Information service or telecommunications service, both as
defined in the “Telecommunications Act of 1996”, 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended;
         (c)   Internet protocol-enabled services, as defined in R.C. §
4927.01.
      MOBILE SERVICE. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153, as amended.
      SEXUAL ACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Sexual activity;
         (b)   Masturbation;
         (c)   An act involving a bodily substance that is performed for the
purpose of sexual arousal or gratification;
         (d)   Sado-masochistic abuse.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER. Has the meaning defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153,
as amended.
      VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1332.21.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly disseminate an image of another person if
all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person in the image is 18 years of age or older.
      (2)   The person in the image can be identified from the image itself or
from information displayed in connection with the image and the offender
supplied the identifying information.
      (3)   The person in the image is in a state of nudity or is engaged in a
sexual act.
      (4)   The image is disseminated without consent from the person in the
image.
      (5)   The image is disseminated with intent to harm the person in the
image.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit the dissemination of an image if any of
the following apply:
      (1)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of a criminal
investigation that is otherwise lawful.
      (2)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the reporting of unlawful conduct.
      (3)   The image is part of a news report or commentary or an artistic or
expressive work, such as a performance, work of art, literary work, theatrical
work, musical work, motion picture, film, or audiovisual work.
      (4)   The image is disseminated by a law enforcement officer, or a
corrections officer or guard in a detention facility, acting within the scope
of the person’s official duties.
      (5)   The image is disseminated for another lawful public purpose.
      (6)   The person in the image is knowingly and willingly in a state of
nudity or engaged in a sexual act and is knowingly and willingly in a location
in which the person does not have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      (7)   The image is disseminated for the purpose of medical treatment or
examination.
   (D)   The following entities are not liable for a violation of this section
solely as a result of an image or other information provided by another person:
      (1)   A provider of interactive computer service;
      (2)   A mobile service;
      (3)   A telecommunications carrier;
      (4)   An internet provider;
      (5)   A cable service provider;
      (6)   A direct-to-home satellite service;
      (7)   A video service provider.
   (E)   Any conduct that is a violation of this section and any other section
of this Code or the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under this section, the
other section, or both sections.
   (F)   (1)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (F)(1)(b), (F)(1)
(c), or (F)(1)(d) of this section, whoever violates this section is guilty of
nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images, a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of this section or any substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of private sexual images is
a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (c)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to two or more violations of this section or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, nonconsensual dissemination of
private sexual images is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (d)   If the offender is under 18 years of age and the person in the
image is not more than five years older than the offender, the offender shall
not be prosecuted under this section.
      (2)   In addition to any other penalty or disposition authorized or
required by law, the court may order any person who is convicted of a violation
of this section or who is adjudicated delinquent by reason of a violation of
this section to criminally forfeit all of the following property to the state
under R.C. Chapter 2981:
         (a)   Any profits or proceeds and any property the person has acquired
or maintained in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines
to have been acquired or maintained as a result of the violation;
         (b)   Any interest in, securities of, claim against, or property or
contractual right of any kind affording a source of influence over any
enterprise that the person has established, operated, controlled, or conducted
in violation of this section that the sentencing court determines to have been
acquired or maintained as a result of the violation.
   (G)   A victim of a violation of this section may commence a civil cause of
action against the offender, as described in R.C. § 2307.66.
(R.C. § 2917.211)
§ 133.99 SENTENCING FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED OFFENSES; SEXUAL PREDATORS;
REGISTRATION.
   (A)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, and the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim
offender relative to the offense or the offense is any offense listed in R.C. §
2901.07(D)(1) to (D)(3), the judge shall include in the offender’s sentence a
statement that the offender is a tier III sex offender/child-victim offender,
shall comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2950.03, and shall require the
offender to submit to a DNA specimen collection procedure pursuant to R.C. §
2901.07.
   (B)   If an offender is being sentenced for a sexually oriented offense or a
child-victim oriented offense that is a misdemeanor committed on or after
January 1, 1997, the judge shall include in the sentence a summary of the
offender’s duties imposed under R.C. §§ 2950.04, 2950.041, 2950.05, and
2950.06, and the duration of the duties. The judge shall inform the offender,
at the time of sentencing, of those duties and of their duration. If required
under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(2), the judge shall perform the duties specified in
that section or, if required under R.C. § 2950.03(A)(6), the judge shall
perform the duties specified in that division.
(R.C. § 2929.23)
Cross-reference:
    Sentencing generally, see
Chapter 130
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING OFFENSES
Section
   
134.01   Definitions
   
134.02   Prohibitions against gambling; exception
   
134.03   Operating a gambling house
   
134.04   Public gaming
   
134.05   Cheating
   
134.06   Regulations concerning operation of licensed bingo game
   
134.07   Records to be kept
   
134.08   Requirements for bingo game operators
   
134.09   Bingo games for amusement only
   
134.10   Prohibitions where instant bingo game is conducted
   
134.11   Raffle drawings
   
134.12   Instant bingo other than at bingo sessions
   
134.13   Restrictions on owner or lessor of location at instant bingo
   
134.14   Skill-based amusement machines; prohibited conduct
   
134.15   Electronic instant bingo; prohibited conduct
Statutory reference:
   Conducting an illegal bingo game, felony, see R.C. § 2915.07
   Licensing bingo games by Attorney General, see R.C. § 2915.08
   Licensing distributors of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.081
   Licensing manufacturers of bingo supplies by Attorney General, see R.C. §
2915.082
§ 134.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BET. The hazarding of anything of value upon the result of an event,
undertaking, or contingency, but does not include a bona fide business risk.
   BINGO. Either of the following:
      (1)   A game with all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   The participants use bingo cards or sheets, including paper
formats and electronic representation or image formats, that are divided into
25 spaces arranged in five horizontal and five vertical rows of spaces, with
each space, except the central space, being designated by a combination of a
letter and a number and with the central space being designated as a free
space;
         (b)   The participants cover the spaces on the bingo cards or sheets
that correspond to combinations of letters and numbers that are announced by a
bingo game operator;
         (c)   A bingo game operator announces combinations of letters and
numbers that appear on objects that a bingo game operator selects by chance,
either manually or mechanically, from a receptacle that contains 75 objects at
the beginning of each game, each object marked by a different combination of a
letter and a number that corresponds to one of the 75 possible combinations of
a letter and a number that can appear on the bingo cards or sheets;
         (d)   The winner of the bingo game includes any participant who
properly announces during the interval between the announcements of letters and
numbers, as described in division (1)(c) of this definition, that a
predetermined and pre-announced pattern of spaces has been covered on a bingo
card or sheet being used by the participant.
      (2)   Instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, and raffles.
   BINGO GAME OPERATOR. Any person, except security personnel, who performs
work or labor at the site of bingo including but not limited to collecting
money from participants, handing out bingo cards or sheets or objects to cover
spaces on bingo cards or sheets, selecting from a receptacle the objects that
contain the combination of letters and numbers that appear on bingo cards or
sheets, calling out the combinations of letters and numbers, distributing
prizes, selling or redeeming instant bingo tickets or cards, selling or
redeeming electronic instant bingo tickets, credits, or vouchers, accessing an
electronic instant bingo system other than as a participant, supervising the
operation of a punch board, selling raffle tickets, selecting raffle tickets
from a receptacle and announcing the winning numbers in a raffle, and
preparing, selling, and serving food or beverages. “Bingo game operator” does
not include a person who is installing, maintaining, updating, or repairing an
electronic instant bingo system.
   BINGO SESSION. A period that includes both of the following:
      (1)   Not to exceed five continuous hours for the conduct of one or more
games described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section,
instant bingo, and electronic instant bingo;
      (2)   A period for the conduct of instant bingo and electronic instant
bingo for not more than two hours before and not more than two hours after the
period described in division (1) of this definition.
   BINGO SUPPLIES. Bingo cards or sheets; instant bingo tickets or cards;
electronic bingo aids; raffle tickets; punch boards; seal cards; instant bingo
ticket dispensers; electronic instant bingo systems; and devices for selecting
or displaying the combination of bingo letters and numbers or raffle tickets.
Items that are “bingo supplies” are not gambling devices if sold or otherwise
provided, and used, in accordance with this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915. For
purposes of this chapter, “bingo supplies” are not to be considered equipment
used to conduct a bingo game.
   BOOKMAKING. The business of receiving or paying off bets.
   CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. Any organization of individuals, professionals, and
businesses that has the purpose to advance the commercial, financial,
industrial, and civic interests of the community and that is, and has received
from the Internal Revenue Service a determination letter that currently is in
effect stating that the organization is, exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(6).
   CHARITABLE BINGO GAME. Any bingo game described in divisions (1) or (2) of
the definition of “bingo” in this section that is conducted by a charitable
organization that has obtained a license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08 and the
proceeds of which are used for a charitable purpose.
   CHARITABLE INSTANT BINGO ORGANIZATION. An organization that is exempt from
federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and
is a charitable organization as defined in this section. The term does not
include a charitable organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3) and that is created by a
veteran’s organization, a fraternal organization, or a sporting organization in
regards to bingo conducted or assisted by a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization pursuant to R.C. § 2915.13, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, “charitable
organization” means either of the following:
         (a)   An organization that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A volunteer rescue service organization, volunteer firefighter’s
organization, veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §§ 501(c)
(4), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or 501(c)(19).
      (2)   To qualify as a charitable organization, an organization shall have
been in continuous existence as such in this state for a period of two years
immediately preceding either the making of an application for a bingo license
under R.C. § 2915.08 or the conducting of any game of chance as provided in
R.C. § 2915.02(D), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   CHARITABLE PURPOSE. Means that the net profit of bingo, other than instant
bingo or electronic instant bingo, is used by, or is given, donated, or
otherwise transferred to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any organization that is described in IRC §§ 509(a)(1), 509(a)(2),
or 509(a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an organization that is tax
exempt under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3);
      (2)   A veteran’s organization that is a post, chapter, or organization
of veterans, or an auxiliary unit or society of, or a trust or foundation for,
any such post, chapter, or organization organized in the United States or any
of its possessions, at least 75% of the members of which are veterans and
substantially all of the other members of which are individuals who are
spouses, widows, or widowers of veterans, or such individuals, provided that no
part of the net earnings of such post, chapter, or organization inures to the
benefit of any private shareholder or individual, and further provided that the
net profit is used by the post, chapter, or organization for the charitable
purposes set forth in R.C. § 5739.02(B)(12), is used for awarding scholarships
to or for attendance at an institution mentioned in that division of the Ohio
Revised Code, is donated to a governmental agency, or is used for nonprofit
youth activities, the purchase of United States or Ohio flags that are donated
to schools, youth groups, or other bona fide nonprofit organizations, promotion
of patriotism, or disaster relief;
      (3)   A fraternal organization that has been in continuous existence in
this state for 15 years and that uses the net profit exclusively for religious,
charitable, scientific, literary, or educational purposes, or for the
prevention of cruelty to children or animals, if contributions for such use
would qualify as a deductible charitable contribution under IRC § 170;
      (4)   A volunteer firefighter’s organization that uses the net profit for
the purposes set forth in the definition of “volunteer firefighter’s
organization” in this section.
   COMMUNITY ACTION AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 122.66.
   CONDUCT. To back, promote, organize, manage, carry on, sponsor, or prepare
for the operation of bingo or a game of chance, a scheme of chance, or a
sweepstakes.
   DEAL. A single game of instant bingo tickets, or a single game of electronic
instant bingo tickets, all with the same serial number.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who purchases or obtains bingo supplies and who does
either of the following:
      (1)   Sells, offers for sale, or otherwise provides or offers to provide
the bingo supplies to another person for use in this state;
      (2)   Modifies, converts, adds to, or removes parts from the bingo
supplies to further their promotion or sale for use in this state.
   ELECTRONIC BINGO AID.
      (1)   An electronic device used by a participant to monitor bingo cards
or sheets purchased at the time and place of a bingo session and that does all
of the following:
         (a)   It provides a means for a participant to input numbers and
letters announced by a bingo caller.
         (b)   It compares the numbers and letters entered by the participant
to the bingo faces previously stored in the memory of the device.
         (c)   It identifies a winning bingo pattern.
      (2)   The term does not include any device into which a coin, currency,
token, or an equivalent is inserted to activate play.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO.
      (1)   A form of bingo that consists of an electronic or digital
representation of instant bingo in which a participant wins a prize if the
participant’s electronic instant bingo ticket contains a combination of numbers
or symbols that was designated in advance as a winning combination, and to
which all of the following apply:
         (a)   Each deal has a predetermined, finite number of winning and
losing tickets and a predetermined prize amount and deal structure, provided
that there may be multiple winning combinations in each deal and multiple
winning tickets.
         (b)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal has a unique
serial number that is not regenerated.
         (c)   Each electronic instant bingo ticket within a deal is sold for
the same price.
         (d)   After a participant purchases an electronic instant bingo
ticket, the combination of numbers or symbols on the ticket is revealed to the
participant.
         (e)   The reveal of numbers or symbols on the ticket may incorporate
an entertainment or bonus theme, provided that the reveal does not include
spinning reels that resemble a slot machine.
         (f)   The reveal theme, if any, does not require additional
consideration or award any prize other than any predetermined prize associated
with the electronic instant bingo ticket.
      (2)   The term shall not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any game, entertainment, or bonus theme that replicates or
simulates any of the following:
            1.   The gambling games of keno, blackjack, roulette, poker, craps,
other casino-style table games;
            2.   Horse racing;
            3.   Gambling games offered in this state on slot machines or video
lottery terminals. As used in this division, “video lottery terminal” has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3770.21.
         (b)   Any device operated by dropping one or more coins or tokens into
a slot and pulling a handle or pushing a button or touchpoint on a touchscreen
to activate one to three or more rotating reels marked into horizontal segments
by varying symbols, where the predetermined prize amount depends on how and how
many of the symbols line up when the rotating reels come to a rest;
         (c)   Any device that includes a coin or token slot, tray, or hopper
and the ability to dispense coins, cash, tokens, or anything of value other
than a credit ticket voucher.
   ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO SYSTEM. Means both of the following:
      (1)   A mechanical, electronic, digital, or video device and associated
software to which all of the following apply:
         (a)   It is used by not more than one player at a time to play
electronic instant bingo on a single screen that is physically connected to the
device;
         (b)   It is located on the premises of the principal place of business
of a veteran’s or fraternal organization that holds a type II or type III bingo
license to conduct electronic instant bingo at that location issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08.
      (2)   Any associated equipment or software used to manage, monitor, or
document any aspect of electronic instant bingo.
   EXPENSES. The reasonable amount of gross profit actually expended for all of
the following:
      (1)   The purchase or lease of bingo supplies;
      (2)   The annual license fee required under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Bank fees and service charges for a bingo session or game account
described in R.C. § 2915.10;
      (4)   Audits and accounting services;
      (5)   Safes;
      (6)   Cash registers;
      (7)   Hiring security personnel;
      (8)   Advertising bingo;
      (9)   Renting premises in which to conduct a bingo session;
      (10)   Tables and chairs;
      (11)   Expenses for maintaining and operating a charitable organization’s
facilities, including but not limited to a post home, club house, lounge,
tavern, or canteen and any grounds attached to the post home, club house,
lounge, tavern, or canteen;
      (12)   Payment of real property taxes and assessments that are levied on
a premises on which bingo is conducted;
      (13)   Any other product or service directly related to the conduct of
bingo that is authorized in rules adopted by the Attorney General under R.C. §
2915.08(F)(1).
   FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. Any society, order, state headquarters, or
association within this state, except a college or high school fraternity, that
is not organized for profit, that is a branch, lodge, or chapter of a national
or state organization, that exists exclusively for the common business or
sodality of its members.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A book, totalizer, or other equipment used for recording bets;
      (2)   A ticket, token, or other device representing a chance, share, or
interest in a scheme of chance or evidencing a bet;
      (3)   A deck of cards, dice, gaming table, roulette wheel, slot machine,
or other apparatus designed for use in connection with a game of chance;
      (4)   Any equipment, device, apparatus, or paraphernalia specially
designed for gambling purposes;
      (5)   Bingo supplies sold or otherwise provided, or used, in violation of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   GAMBLING OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. Chapter 2915;
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or of the United States substantially equivalent to any
provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 or a violation of R.C. § 2915.06
as it existed prior to July 1, 1996;
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former municipal ordinance or law
of this or any other state or of the United States, of which gambling is an
element;
      (4)   A conspiracy or attempt to commit, or complicity in committing, any
offense under division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   GAME FLARE. The board or placard, or electronic representation of a board or
placard, that accompanies each deal of instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo tickets and that includes the following information for the game:
      (1)   The name of the game;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name or distinctive logo;
      (3)   The form number;
      (4)   The ticket count;
      (5)   The prize structure, including the number of winning tickets by
denomination and the respective winning symbol or number combinations for the
winning tickets;
      (6)   The cost per play;
      (7)   The serial number of the game.
   GAME OF CHANCE. Poker, craps, roulette, or other game in which a player
gives anything of value in the hope of gain, the outcome of which is determined
largely by chance, but does not include bingo.
   GAME OF CHANCE CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. Any game of chance designed to produce
income for the person who conducts or operates the game of chance, but does not
include bingo.
   GROSS ANNUAL REVENUES. The annual gross receipts derived from the conduct of
bingo described in division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in this section
plus the annual net profit derived from the conduct of bingo described in
division (2) of the definition of “bingo” in this section.
   GROSS PROFIT. Gross receipts minus the amount actually expended for the
payment of prize awards.
   GROSS RECEIPTS. All money or assets, including admission fees, that a person
receives from bingo without the deduction of any amounts for prizes paid out or
for the expenses of conducting bingo. The term does not include any money
directly taken in from the sale of food or beverages by a charitable
organization conducting bingo, or by a bona fide auxiliary unit or society of a
charitable organization conducting bingo, provided all of the following apply:
      (1)   The auxiliary unit or society has been in existence as a bona fide
auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization for at least two years
prior to conducting bingo.
      (2)   The person who purchases the food or beverage receives nothing of
value except the food or beverage and items customarily received with the
purchase of that food or beverage.
      (3)   The food and beverages are sold at customary and reasonable prices.
   HISTORIC RAILROAD. All or a portion of the tracks and right-of-way of a
railroad that was owned and operated by a for profit common carrier in this
state at any time prior to January 1, 1950.
   INSTANT BINGO. A form of bingo that shall use folded or banded tickets or
paper cards with perforated break-open tabs, a face of which is covered or
otherwise hidden from view to conceal a number, letter, or symbol, or set of
numbers, letters, or symbols, some of which have been designated in advance as
prize winners, and may also include games in which some winners are determined
by the random selection of one or more bingo numbers by the use of a seal card
or bingo blower. “Instant bingo” also includes a punch board game. In all
“instant bingo” the prize amount and structure shall be predetermined. The term
does not include electronic instant bingo or any device that is activated by
the insertion of a coin, currency, token, or an equivalent, and that contains
as one of its components a video display monitor that is capable of displaying
numbers, letters, symbols, or characters in winning or losing combinations.
   INSTANT BINGO TICKET DISPENSER. A mechanical device that dispenses an
instant bingo ticket or card as the sole item of value dispensed and that has
the following characteristics:
      (1)   It is activated upon the insertion of United States currency.
      (2)   It performs no gaming functions.
      (3)   It does not contain a video display monitor or generate noise.
      (4)   It is not capable of displaying any numbers, letters, symbols, or
characters in winning or losing combinations.
      (5)   It does not simulate or display rolling or spinning reels.
      (6)   It is incapable of determining whether a dispensed bingo ticket or
card is a winning or non-winning ticket or card and requires a winning ticket
or card to be paid by a bingo game operator.
      (7)   It may provide accounting and security features to aid in
accounting for the instant bingo tickets or cards it dispenses.
      (8)   It is not part of an electronic network and is not interactive.
   INTERNAL REVENUE CODE (IRC). The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 100 Stat.
2085, 26 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq., as now or hereafter amended.
   MANUFACTURER. Any person who assembles completed bingo supplies from raw
materials, other items, or subparts or who modifies, converts, adds to, or
removes parts from bingo supplies to further their promotion or sale.
   MERCHANDISE PRIZE. Any item of value, but shall not include any of the
following:
      (1)   Cash, gift cards, or any equivalent thereof;
      (2)   Plays on games of chance, state lottery tickets, or bingo;
      (3)   Firearms, tobacco, or alcoholic beverages; or
      (4)   A redeemable voucher that is redeemable for any of the items listed
in division (1), (2), or (3) of this definition.
   NET PROFIT. Gross profit minus expenses.
   NET PROFIT FROM THE PROCEEDS OF THE SALE OF INSTANT BINGO OR ELECTRONIC
INSTANT BINGO. Gross profit minus the ordinary, necessary, and reasonable
expense expended for the purchase of bingo supplies for the purpose of
conducting instant bingo or electronic instant bingo, and, in the case of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conducted by a veteran’s, fraternal,
or sporting organization, minus the payment by that organization of real
property taxes and assessments levied on a premises on which instant bingo or
electronic instant bingo is conducted.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person who plays bingo.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1.59 and includes any firm or any
other legal entity, however organized.
   POOL NOT CONDUCTED FOR PROFIT. A scheme in which a participant gives a
valuable consideration for a chance to win a prize and the total amount of
consideration wagered is distributed to a participant or participants.
   PUNCH BOARD. A form of instant bingo that uses a board containing a number
of holes or receptacles of uniform size in which are placed, mechanically and
randomly, serially numbered slips of paper that may be punched or drawn from
the hole or receptacle. A player may punch or draw the numbered slips of paper
from the holes or receptacles and obtain the prize established for the game if
the number drawn corresponds to a winning number or, if the punch board
includes the use of a seal card, a potential winning number.
   RAFFLE. A form of bingo in which the one or more prizes are won by one or
more persons who have purchased a raffle ticket. The one or more winners of the
raffle are determined by drawing a ticket stub or other detachable section from
a receptacle containing ticket stubs or detachable sections corresponding to
all tickets sold for the raffle. The term does not include the drawing of a
ticket stub or other detachable section of a ticket purchased to attend a
professional sporting event if both of the following apply:
      (1)   The ticket stub or other detachable section is used to select the
winner of a free prize given away at the professional sporting event; and
      (2)   The cost of the ticket is the same as the cost of a ticket to the
professional sporting event on days when no free prize is given away.
   REDEEMABLE VOUCHER. Any ticket, token, coupon, receipt, or other noncash
representation of value.
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATION. Any church, body of communicants, or group that is
not organized or operated for profit and that gathers in common membership for
regular worship and religious observances.
   REVOKE. To void permanently all rights and privileges of the holder of a
license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SCHEME OF CHANCE.
      (1)   A slot machine unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3772, lottery
unless authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770, numbers game, pool conducted for
profit, or other scheme in which a participant gives a valuable consideration
for a chance to win a prize, but does not include bingo, a skill-based
amusement machine, or a pool not conducted for profit. “Scheme of chance”
includes the use of an electronic device to reveal the results of a game entry
if valuable consideration is paid, directly or indirectly, for a chance to win
a prize. Valuable consideration is deemed to be paid for a chance to win a
prize in the following instances:
         (a)   Less than 50% of the goods or services sold by a scheme of
chance operator in exchange for game entries are used or redeemed by
participants at any one location;
         (b)   Less than 50% of participants who purchase goods or services at
any one location do not accept, use, or redeem the goods or services sold or
purportedly sold;
         (c)   More than 50% of prizes at any one location are revealed to
participants through an electronic device simulating a game of chance or a
“casino game” as defined in R.C. § 3772.01;
         (d)   The good or service sold by a scheme of chance operator in
exchange for a game entry cannot be used or redeemed in the manner advertised;
         (e)   A participant pays more than fair market value for goods or
services offered by a scheme of chance operator in order to receive one or more
game entries;
         (f)   A participant may use the electronic device to purchase
additional game entries;
         (g)   A participant may purchase additional game entries by using
points or credits won as prizes while using the electronic device;
         (h)   A scheme of chance operator pays out in prize money more than
20% of the gross revenue received at one location; or
         (i)   A participant makes a purchase or exchange in order to obtain
any good or service that may be used to facilitate play on the electronic
device.
      (2)   As used in this division, “electronic device” means a mechanical,
video, digital, or electronic machine or device that is capable of displaying
information on a screen or other mechanism and that is owned, leased, or
otherwise possessed by any person conducting a scheme of chance, or by that
person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or contractors. “Electronic
device” does not include an electronic instant bingo system.
   SEAL CARD. A form of instant bingo that uses instant bingo tickets in
conjunction with a board or placard that contains one or more seals that, when
removed or opened, reveal predesignated winning numbers, letters, or symbols.
   SECURITY PERSONNEL. Includes any person who either is a Sheriff, deputy
sheriff, Marshal, deputy marshal, township constable, or member of an organized
police department of a municipal corporation or has successfully completed a
peace officer’s training course pursuant to R.C. §§ 109.71 through 109.79 and
who is hired to provide security for the premises on which bingo is conducted.
   SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINE.
      (1)   (a)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic device that
rewards the player or players, if at all, only with merchandise prizes or with
redeemable vouchers redeemable only for merchandise prizes, provided that with
respect to rewards for playing the game all of the following apply:
            1.   The wholesale value of a merchandise prize awarded as a result
of the single play of a machine does not exceed $10;
            2.   Redeemable vouchers awarded for any single play of a machine
are not redeemable for a merchandise prize with a wholesale value of more than
$10;
            3.   Redeemable vouchers are not redeemable for a merchandise prize
that has a wholesale value of more than $10 times the fewest number of single
plays necessary to accrue the redeemable vouchers required to obtain that
prize; and
            4.   Any redeemable vouchers or merchandise prizes are distributed
at the site of the skill-based amusement machine at the time of play.
         (b)   A card for the purchase of gasoline is a redeemable voucher for
purposes of division (1) of this definition even if the skill-based amusement
machine for the play of which the card is awarded is located at a place where
gasoline may not be legally distributed to the public or the card is not
redeemable at the location of, or at the time of playing, the skill-based
amusement machine.
      (2)   A device shall not be considered a skill-based amusement machine
and shall be considered a slot machine if it pays cash or one or more of the
following apply:
         (a)   The ability of a player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the number or ratio of prior wins to prior losses of players playing the game;
         (b)   Any reward of redeemable vouchers is not based solely on the
player achieving the object of the game or the player’s score;
         (c)   The outcome of the game, or the value of the redeemable voucher
or merchandise prize awarded for winning the game, can be controlled by a
source other than any player playing the game;
         (d)   The success of any player is or may be determined by a chance
event that cannot be altered by player actions;
         (e)   The ability of any player to succeed at the game is determined
by game features not visible or known to the player;
         (f)   The ability of the player to succeed at the game is impacted by
the exercise of a skill that no reasonable player could exercise.
      (3)   All of the following apply to any machine that is operated as
described in division (1) of this definition:
         (a)   As used in this definition of “skill-based amusement machine”,
GAME and PLAY mean one event from the initial activation of the machine until
the results of play are determined without payment of additional consideration.
An individual utilizing a machine that involves a single game, play, contest,
competition, or tournament may be awarded redeemable vouchers or merchandise
prizes based on the results of play.
         (b)   Advance play for a single game, play, contest, competition, or
tournament participation may be purchased. The cost of the contest,
competition, or tournament participation may be greater than a single non-
contest, competition, or tournament play.
         (c)   To the extent that the machine is used in a contest,
competition, or tournament, that contest, competition, or tournament has a
defined starting and ending date and is open to participants in competition for
scoring and ranking results toward the awarding of redeemable vouchers or
merchandise prizes that are stated prior to the start of the contest,
competition, or tournament.
      (4)   For purposes of division (1) of this definition, the mere presence
of a device, such as a pin-setting, ball-releasing, or scoring mechanism, that
does not contribute to or affect the outcome of the play of the game does not
make the device a skill-based amusement machine.
   SLOT MACHINE.
      (1)   Either of the following:
         (a)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player who gives the thing of value in the hope of gain;
         (b)   Any mechanical, electronic, video, or digital device that is
capable of accepting anything of value, directly or indirectly, from or on
behalf of a player to conduct bingo or a scheme or game of chance.
      (2)   The term does not include a skill-based amusement machine, an
instant bingo ticket dispenser, or an electronic instant bingo system.
   SPORTING ORGANIZATION. A hunting, fishing, or trapping organization, other
than a college or high school fraternity or sorority, that is not organized for
profit, that is affiliated with a state or national sporting organization,
including but not limited to the League of Ohio Sportsmen, and that has been in
continuous existence in this state for a period of three years.
   SUSPEND. To interrupt temporarily all rights and privileges of the holder of
a license issued under R.C. § 2915.08, 2915.081, or 2915.082 or a charitable
gaming license issued by another jurisdiction.
   SWEEPSTAKES. Any game, contest, advertising scheme or plan, or other
promotion where consideration is not required for a person to enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. “Sweepstakes” does not include bingo as authorized under R.C. Chapter
2915, pari-mutuel wagering as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3769, lotteries
conducted by the State Lottery Commission as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3770,
and casino gaming as authorized by R.C. Chapter 3772.
   SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE.
      (1)   A mechanical, video, digital, or electronic machine or device that
is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by any person conducting a
sweepstakes, or by that person’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries, or
contractors, that is intended to be used by a sweepstakes participant, and that
is capable of displaying information on a screen or other mechanism. A device
is a sweepstakes terminal device if any of the following apply:
         (a)   The device uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of
the prizes associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
         (b)   The device utilizes software such that the simulated game
influences or determines the winning of or value of the prize.
         (c)   The device selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of
entries.
         (d)   The device utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a
predetermined sweepstakes entry.
         (e)   The device predetermines the prize results and stores those
results for delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
         (f)   The device utilizes software to create a game result.
         (g)   The device reveals the prize incrementally, even though the
device does not influence the awarding of the prize or the value of any prize
awarded.
         (h)   The device determines and associates the prize with an entry or
entries at the time the sweepstakes is entered.
      (2)   As used in this definition and in §
134.02:
         ENTER. The act by which a person becomes eligible to receive any prize
offered in a sweepstakes.
         ENTRY. One event from the initial activation of the sweepstakes
terminal device until all the sweepstakes prize results from that activation
are revealed.
         PRIZE. Any gift, award, gratuity, good, service, credit, reward, or
any other thing of value that may be transferred to a person, whether
possession of the prize is actually transferred, or placed on an account or
other record as evidence of the intent to transfer the prize.
         SWEEPSTAKES TERMINAL DEVICE FACILITY. Any location in this state where
a sweepstakes terminal device is provided to a sweepstakes participant, except
as provided in § 134.02(G) and R.C. § 2915.02(G).
         VETERAN’S ORGANIZATION. Any individual post or state headquarters of a
national veteran’s association or an auxiliary unit of any individual post of a
national veteran’s association, which post, state headquarters, or auxiliary
unit is incorporated as a nonprofit corporation and either has received a
letter from the state headquarters of the national veteran’s association
indicating that the individual post or auxiliary unit is in good standing with
the national veteran’s association or has received a letter from the national
veteran’s association indicating that the state headquarters is in good
standing with the national veteran’s association. As used in this definition,
NATIONAL VETERAN’S ASSOCIATION means any veteran’s association that has been in
continuous existence as such for a period of at least five years and either is
incorporated by an act of the United States Congress or has a national dues-
paying membership of at least 5,000 persons.
         VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER’S ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteer
firefighters, as defined in R.C. § 146.01, that is organized and operated
exclusively to provide financial support for a volunteer fire department or a
volunteer fire company and that is recognized or ratified by a county,
municipal corporation, or township.
         VOLUNTEER RESCUE SERVICE ORGANIZATION. Any organization of volunteers
organized to function as an emergency medical service organization, as defined
in R.C. § 4765.01.
         YOUTH ATHLETIC ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that is organized and operated exclusively to provide financial support
to, or to operate, athletic activities for persons who are 21 years of age or
younger by means of sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the
support of an athletic team, club, league, or association.
         YOUTH ATHLETIC PARK ORGANIZATION. Any organization, not organized for
profit, that satisfies both of the following:
            a.   It owns, operates, and maintains playing fields that satisfy
both of the following:
               i.   The playing fields are used for athletic activities by one
or more organizations, not organized for profit, each of which is organized and
operated exclusively to provide financial support to, or to operate, athletic
activities for persons who are 18 years of age or younger by means of
sponsoring, organizing, operating, or contributing to the support of an
athletic team, club, league, or association.
               ii.   The playing fields are not used for any profit-making
activity at any time during the year.
            b.   It uses the proceeds of bingo it conducts exclusively for the
operation, maintenance, and improvement of its playing fields of the type
described in division (1) of this definition.
(R.C. § 2915.01)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITIONS AGAINST GAMBLING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Engage in bookmaking, or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates bookmaking.
      (2)   Establish, promote, or operate or knowingly engage in conduct that
facilitates any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (3)   Knowingly procure, transmit, exchange, or engage in conduct that
facilitates the procurement, transmission, or exchange of information for use
in establishing odds or determining winners in connection with bookmaking or
with any game of chance conducted for profit or any scheme of chance.
      (4)   Engage in betting or in playing any scheme or game of chance as a
substantial source of income or livelihood.
      (5)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
and either:
         (a)   Give to another person any item described in R.C. § 2915.01(VV)
(1), (VV)(2), (VV)(3), or (VV)(4) as a prize for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes; or
         (b)   Give to another person any merchandise prize, or a redeemable
voucher for a merchandise prize, the wholesale value of which is in excess of
$10 and which is awarded as a single entry for playing or participating in a
sweepstakes. Redeemable vouchers shall not be redeemable for a merchandise
prize that has a wholesale value of more than $10.
      (6)   Conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a sweepstakes with the
use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes terminal device facility
without first obtaining a current annual “certificate of registration” from the
Attorney General as required by R.C. § 2915.02(F).
      (7)   With purpose to violate division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4),
(A)(5), or (A)(6) of this section, acquire, possess, control, or operate any
gambling device.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A)(1) of this section, a person facilitates
bookmaking if the person in any way knowingly aids an illegal bookmaking
operation, including, without limitation, placing a bet with a person engaged
in or facilitating illegal bookmaking. For purposes of division (A)(2) of this
section, a person facilitates a game of chance conducted for profit or a scheme
of chance if the person in any way knowingly aids in the conduct or operation
of any such game or scheme, including, without limitation, playing any such
game or scheme.
   (C)   This section does not prohibit conduct in connection with gambling
expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
      (1)   Games of chance, if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The games of chance are not craps for money or roulette for
money.
         (b)   The games of chance are conducted by a charitable organization
that is and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a determination
letter that is currently in effect, stating that the organization is exempt
from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)
(3).
         (c)   The games of chance are conducted at festivals of the charitable
organization that are conducted not more than a total of five days a calendar
year, and are conducted on premises owned by the charitable organization for a
period of no less than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the
games of chance, on premises leased from a governmental unit, or on premises
that are leased from a veteran’s or fraternal organization and that have been
owned by the lessor veteran’s or fraternal organization for a period of no less
than one year immediately preceding the conducting of the games of chance. A
charitable organization shall not lease premises from a veteran’s or fraternal
organization to conduct a festival described in this division, if the veteran’s
or fraternal organization already has leased the premises 12 times during the
preceding year to charitable organizations for that purpose. If a charitable
organization leases premises from a veteran’s or fraternal organization to
conduct a festival described in this division, the charitable organization
shall not pay a rental rate for the premises per day of the festival that
exceeds the rental rate per bingo session that a charitable organization may
pay under R.C. § 2915.09(B)(1) or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance when it leases premises from another charitable organization to
conduct bingo games.
         (d)   All of the money or assets received from the games of chance
after deduction only of prizes paid out during the conduct of the games of
chance are used by, given, donated or otherwise transferred to any organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that is tax exempt under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c)(3).
         (e)   The games of chance are not conducted during or within ten hours
of a bingo game conducted for amusement purposes only pursuant to R.C. §
2915.12 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance. No person shall
receive any commission, wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other
form of compensation, directly or indirectly, for operating or assisting in the
operation of any game of chance.
      (2)   Any tag fishing tournament, as defined in R.C. § 1531.01, operated
under a permit issued under R.C. § 1533.92.
      (3)   Bingo conducted by a charitable organization that holds a license
issued under R.C. § 2915.08.
   (E)   Division (D) of this section shall not be construed to authorize the
sale, lease, or other temporary or permanent transfer of the right to conduct
games of chance, as granted by that division, by any charitable organization
that is granted that right.
   (F)   Any person desiring to conduct, or participate in the conduct of, a
sweepstakes with the use of a sweepstakes terminal device at a sweepstakes
terminal device facility shall first register with the Office of the Attorney
General and obtain an annual certificate of registration by providing a filing
fee of $200 and all information as required by rule adopted under R.C. §
2915.02(H). Not later than the tenth day of each month, each sweepstakes
terminal device operator shall file a sweepstakes terminal device monthly
report with the Attorney General and provide a filing fee of $50 and all
information required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H). All information
provided to the Attorney General under this division shall be available to law
enforcement upon request.
   (G)   (1)   A person may apply to the Attorney General, on a form prescribed
by the Attorney General, for a certificate of compliance that the person is not
operating a sweepstakes terminal device facility. The form shall require the
person to include the address of the business location where sweepstakes
terminal devices will be used and to make the following certifications:
         (a)   That the person will not use more than two sweepstakes terminal
devices at the business location;
         (b)   That the retail value of sweepstakes prizes to be awarded at the
business location using sweepstakes terminal devices during a reporting period
will be less than 3% of the gross revenue received at the business location
during the reporting period;
         (c)   That no other form of gaming except lottery ticket sales as
authorized under R.C. Chapter 3770 will be conducted at the business location
or in an adjoining area of the business location;
         (d)   That any sweepstakes terminal device at the business location
will not allow any deposit of any money, coin, or token, or the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of similar payment
to be used, directly or indirectly, to participate in a sweepstakes;
         (e)   That notification of any prize will not take place on the same
day as a participant’s sweepstakes entry; and
         (f)   That the person consents to provide any other information to the
Attorney General as required by rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.02(H).
      (2)   The filing fee for a certificate of compliance is $250. The
Attorney General may charge up to an additional $250 for reasonable expenses
resulting from any investigation related to an application for a certificate of
compliance.
      (3)   A certificate of compliance is effective for one year. The
certificate holder may reapply for a certificate of compliance. A person issued
a certificate of compliance shall file semiannual reports with the Attorney
General stating the number of sweepstakes terminal devices at the business
location and that the retail value of prizes awarded at the business location
using sweepstakes terminal devices is less than 3% of the gross revenue
received at the business location.
   (H)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of gambling, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense, gambling is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
Notwithstanding this division, failing to file a sweepstakes terminal device
monthly report as required by division (F) of this section or the semiannual
report required by division (G) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2915.02(A) - (G), (K))
§ 134.03 OPERATING A GAMBLING HOUSE.
   (A)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of premises, shall:
      (1)   Use or occupy the premises for gambling in violation of R.C. §
2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   Recklessly permit the premises to be used or occupied for gambling
in violation of R.C. § 2915.02 or a substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of operating a
gambling house, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a gambling offense, operating a gambling house is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Premises used or occupied in violation of this section constitute a
nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.03)
§ 134.04 PUBLIC GAMING.
   (A)   No person, while at a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall,
or other place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall
make a bet or play any game of chance or scheme of chance.
   (B)   No person, being the owner or lessee, or having custody, control, or
supervision of a hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other place
of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort shall recklessly permit
those premises to be used or occupied in violation of division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section do not prohibit conduct in
connection with gambling expressly permitted by law.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of public gaming. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, public gaming is a minor misdemeanor. If
the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling offense, public
gaming is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (E)   Premises used or occupied in violation of division (B) of this section
constitute a nuisance subject to abatement under R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2915.04)
§ 134.05 CHEATING.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to defraud or knowing that the person is
facilitating a fraud, shall engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome
of any of the following:
      (1)   The subject of a bet.
      (2)   A contest of knowledge, skill, or endurance that is not an athletic
or sporting event.
      (3)   A scheme or game of chance.
      (4)   Bingo.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Offer, give, solicit, or accept anything of value to corrupt the
outcome of an athletic or sporting event.
      (2)   Engage in conduct designed to corrupt the outcome of an athletic or
sporting event.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
cheating. Except as otherwise provided in this division, cheating is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the potential gain from the cheating is
$1,000 or more or if the offender previously has been convicted of any gambling
offense or of any theft offense as defined in R.C. § 2913.01, cheating is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
corrupting sports. Corrupting sports is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.05)
§ 134.06 REGULATIONS CONCERNING OPERATION OF LICENSED BINGO GAME.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo shall fail to do any of
the following:
      (1)   Own all of the equipment used to conduct bingo or lease that
equipment from a charitable organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, or
from the landlord of a premises where bingo is conducted, for a rental rate
that is not more than is customary and reasonable for that equipment;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(3) of this section,
use all of the gross receipts from bingo for paying prizes, for reimbursement
of expenses for or for renting premises in which to conduct bingo, for
reimbursement of expenses for or for purchasing or leasing bingo supplies used
in conducting bingo, for reimbursement of expenses for or for hiring security
personnel, for reimbursement of expenses for or for advertising bingo, or for
reimbursement of other expenses or for other expenses listed in the definition
for “expenses” in R.C. § 2915.01, provided that the amount of the receipts so
spent is not more than is customary and reasonable for a similar purchase,
lease, hiring, advertising, or expense. If the building in which bingo is
conducted is owned by the charitable organization conducting bingo and the
bingo conducted includes a form of bingo described in division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01, the charitable organization may deduct
from the total amount of the gross receipts from each session a sum equal to
the lesser of $600 or 45% of the gross receipts from the bingo described in
that division as consideration for the use of the premises;
      (3)   Use, or give, donate, or otherwise transfer, all of the net profit
derived from bingo described in R.C. § 2915.01(O)(1) for a charitable purpose
listed in its license application and described in R.C. § 2915.01(V), or
distribute all of the net profit from the proceeds of the sale of instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo as stated in its license application and in
accordance with R.C. § 2915.101, as applicable.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall fail to do
any of the following:
      (1)   Conduct the bingo game on premises that are owned by the charitable
organization, on premises that are owned by another charitable organization and
leased from that charitable organization for a rental rate not in excess of the
lesser of $650 per bingo session or 45% of the gross receipts of the bingo
session, on premises that are leased from a person other than a charitable
organization for a rental rate that is not more than is customary and
reasonable for premises that are similar in location, size, and quality but not
in excess of $450 per bingo session, or on premises that are owned by a person
other than a charitable organization, that are leased from that person by
another charitable organization, and that are subleased from that other
charitable organization by the charitable organization for a rental rate not in
excess of $450 per bingo session. No charitable organization is required to pay
property taxes or assessments on premises that the charitable organization
leases from another person to conduct bingo sessions. If the charitable
organization leases from a person other than a charitable organization the
premises on which it conducts bingo sessions, the lessor of the premises shall
provide only the premises to the organization and shall not provide the
organization with bingo game operators, security personnel, concessions or
concession operators, bingo supplies, or any other type of service. A
charitable organization shall not lease or sublease premises that it owns or
leases to more than three other charitable organizations per calendar week for
conducting bingo sessions on the premises. A person that is not a charitable
organization shall not lease premises that it owns, leases, or otherwise is
empowered to lease to more than three charitable organizations per calendar
week for conducting bingo sessions on the premises. In no case shall more than
nine bingo sessions be conducted on any premises in any calendar week;
      (2)   Display its license conspicuously at the premises where the bingo
session is conducted;
      (3)   Conduct the bingo session in accordance with division (1) of the
definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (C)   No charitable organization that conducts a bingo game described in
division (1) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for operating a bingo
session that is conducted by the charitable organization or for preparing,
selling, or serving food or beverages at the site of the bingo session, permit
any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to pay
compensation to any bingo game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or
beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable organization, or
permit any auxiliary unit or society of the charitable organization to prepare,
sell, or serve food or beverages at a bingo session conducted by the charitable
organization, if the auxiliary unit or society pays any compensation to the
bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or serve the food or beverages;
      (2)   Pay consulting fees to any person for any services performed in
relation to the bingo session;
      (3)   Pay concession fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in the bingo session;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4) of this section,
conduct more than three bingo sessions in any seven-day period. A volunteer
firefighter’s organization or a volunteer rescue service organization that
conducts not more than five bingo sessions in a calendar year may conduct more
than three bingo sessions in a seven-day period after notifying the Attorney
General when it will conduct the sessions;
      (5)   Pay out more than $6,000 in prizes for bingo games described in
R.C. § 2915.01(S)(1) during any bingo session that is conducted by the
charitable organization. “Prizes” does not include awards from the conduct of
instant bingo.
      (6)   Conduct a bingo session at any time during the eight-hour period
between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m., at any time during, or within ten hours of, a
bingo game conducted for amusement only pursuant to R.C. § 2915.12 or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, at any premises not specified on
its license, or on any day of the week or during any time period not specified
on its license. This division does not prohibit the sale of instant bingo
tickets beginning at 9:00 a.m. for a bingo session that begins at 10:00 a.m. If
circumstances make it impractical for the charitable organization to conduct a
bingo session at the premises, or on the day of the week or at the time
specified on its license or if a charitable organization wants to conduct bingo
sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than the day or time specified
on its license, the charitable organization may apply in writing to the
Attorney General for an amended license pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08(J). A
charitable organization may apply twice in each calendar year for an amended
license to conduct bingo sessions on a day of the week or at a time other than
the day or time specified on its license. If the amended license is granted,
the organization may conduct bingo sessions at the premises, on the day of the
week, and at the time specified on its amended license;
      (7)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, is under the age of 18 to work as a bingo game operator;
      (8)   Permit any person whom the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any
jurisdiction to be a bingo game operator;
      (9)   Permit the lessor of the premises on which the bingo session is
conducted, if the lessor is not a charitable organization, to provide the
charitable organization with bingo game operators, security personnel,
concessions, bingo supplies, or any other type of service;
      (10)   Purchase or lease bingo supplies from any person except a
distributor issued a license under R.C. § 2915.081;
      (11)   (a)   Use or permit the use of electronic bingo aids except under
the following circumstances:
            1.   For any single participant, not more than 90 bingo faces can
be played using an electronic bingo aid or aids.
            2.   The charitable organization shall provide a participant using
an electronic bingo aid with corresponding paper bingo cards or sheets.
            3.   The total price of bingo faces played with an electronic bingo
aid shall be equal to the total price of the same number of bingo faces played
with a paper bingo card or sheet sold at the same bingo session but without an
electronic bingo aid.
            4.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be part of an electronic
network other than a network that includes only bingo aids and devices that are
located on the premises at which the bingo is being conducted or be interactive
with any device not located on the premises at which the bingo is being
conducted.
            5.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to participate in bingo
that is conducted at a location other than the location at which the bingo
session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
            6.   An electronic bingo aid cannot be used to provide for the
input of numbers and letters announced by a bingo caller other than the bingo
caller who physically calls the numbers and letters at the location at which
the bingo session is conducted and at which the electronic bingo aid is used.
         (b)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C.
Chapter 119 that govern the use of electronic bingo aids. The rules may include
a requirement that an electronic bingo aid be capable of being audited by the
Attorney General to verify the number of bingo cards or sheets played during
each bingo session.
      (12)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should
have known, to be under 18 years of age to play bingo described in division (1)
of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01.
   (D)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section,
no charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator, and no bingo
game operator shall receive or accept, any commission, wage, salary, reward,
tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation, directly or indirectly,
regardless of the source, for conducting bingo or providing other work or labor
at the site of bingo during a bingo session.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) of this section, no
charitable organization shall provide to a bingo game operator any commission,
wage, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity, or other form of compensation,
directly or indirectly regardless of the source, for conducting instant bingo,
electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session at the site of
instant bingo, electronic instant bingo, or both other than at a bingo session.
      (3)   Nothing in this division (D) of this section prohibits an employee
of a fraternal organization, veteran’s organization, or sporting organization
from selling instant bingo tickets or cards to the organization’s members or
invited guests, as long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any receipts of bingo.
   (E)   Notwithstanding division (B)(1) of this section, a charitable
organization that, prior to December 6, 1977, has entered into written
agreements for the lease of premises it owns to another charitable organization
or other charitable organizations for the conducting of bingo sessions so that
more than two bingo sessions are conducted per calendar week on the premises,
and a person that is not a charitable organization and that, prior to December
6, 1977, has entered into written agreements for the lease of premises it owns
to charitable organizations for the conducting of more than two bingo sessions
per calendar week on the premises, may continue to lease the premises to those
charitable organizations, provided that no more than four sessions are
conducted per calendar week, that the lessor organization or person has
notified the Attorney General in writing of the organizations that will conduct
the sessions and the days of the week and the times of the day on which the
sessions will be conducted, that the initial lease entered into with each
organization that will conduct the sessions was filed with the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977, and that each organization that will conduct the
sessions was issued a license to conduct bingo games by the Attorney General
prior to December 6, 1977.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit a bingo licensed charitable
organization or a game operator from giving any person an instant bingo ticket
as a prize.
   (G)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
illegally conducting a bingo game, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D)
of this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor. If the offender previously
has been convicted of a violation of division (A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2),
(B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this section, a violation of division
(A)(1), (A)(3), (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3), (C)(1) through (C)(11), or (D) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Whoever violates division (C)(12)
of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C)(12) of this
section, a violation of division (C)(12) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.09)
§ 134.07 RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts bingo or a game of chance
pursuant to R.C. § 2915.02(D), or any substantially equivalent municipal
ordinance, shall fail to maintain the following records for at least three
years from the date on which the bingo or game of chance is conducted:
      (1)   An itemized list of the gross receipts of each bingo session, each
game of instant bingo by serial number, each electronic instant bingo game by
serial number, each raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance, and
an itemized list of the gross profits of each game of instant bingo by serial
number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number;
      (2)   An itemized list of all expenses, other than prizes, that are
incurred in conducting bingo, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses;
      (3)   A list of all prizes awarded during each bingo session, each
raffle, each punch board game, and each game of chance conducted by the
charitable organization, the total prizes awarded from each game of instant
bingo by serial number and each electronic instant bingo game by serial number,
and the name, address, and social security number of all persons who are
winners of prizes of $600 or more in value;
      (4)   An itemized list of the recipients of the net profit of bingo or
game of chance, including the name and address of each recipient to whom the
money is distributed, and if the organization uses the net profit of bingo, or
the money or assets received from a game of chance, for any charitable or other
purpose set forth in R.C. § 2915.01(V), R.C. § 2915.02(D), or R.C. § 2915.101,
a list of each purpose and an itemized list of each expenditure for each
purpose;
      (5)   The number of persons who participate in any bingo session or game
of chance that is conducted by the charitable organization;
      (6)   A list of receipts from the sale of food and beverages by the
charitable organization or one of its auxiliary units or societies, if the
receipts were excluded from “gross receipts” under R.C. § 2915.01(T);
      (7)   An itemized list of all expenses incurred at each bingo session,
each raffle, each punch board game, or each game of instant bingo or electronic
instant bingo conducted by the charitable organization in the sale of food and
beverages by the charitable organization or by an auxiliary unit or society of
the charitable organization, the name of each person to whom the expenses are
paid, and a receipt for all of the expenses.
   (B)   A charitable organization shall keep the records that it is required
to maintain pursuant to division (A) of this section at its principal place of
business in this state or at its headquarters in this state and shall notify
the Attorney General of the location at which those records are kept.
   (C)   The gross profit from each bingo session or game described in division
(1) or (2) of the definition of “bingo” in R.C. § 2915.01 shall be deposited
into a checking account devoted exclusively to the bingo session or game.
Payments for allowable expenses incurred in conducting the bingo session or
game and payments to recipients of some or all of the net profit of the bingo
session or game shall be made only by checks or electronic fund transfers drawn
on the bingo session or game account.
   (D)   Each charitable organization shall conduct and record an inventory of
all of its bingo supplies as of the first day of November of each year.
   (E)   The Attorney General may adopt rules in accordance with R.C. Chapter
119 that establish standards of accounting, record keeping, and reporting to
ensure that gross receipts from bingo or games of chance are properly accounted
for.
   (F)   A distributor shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing to another person bingo supplies for use in this state.
The record shall include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name of the manufacturer from which the distributor purchased
the bingo supplies and the date of the purchase;
      (2)   The name and address of the charitable organization or other
distributor to which the bingo supplies were sold or otherwise provided;
      (3)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies;
      (4)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each charitable organization.
   (G)   A manufacturer shall maintain, for a period of three years after the
date of its sale or other provision, a record of each instance of its selling
or otherwise providing bingo supplies for use in this state. The record shall
include all of the following for each instance:
      (1)   The name and address of the distributor to whom the bingo supplies
were sold or otherwise provided;
      (2)   A description that clearly identifies the bingo supplies, including
serial numbers;
      (3)   Invoices that include the nonrepeating serial numbers of all paper
bingo cards and sheets and all instant bingo deals sold or otherwise provided
to each distributor.
   (H)   (1)   The Attorney General or any law enforcement agency may do all of
the following:
         (a)   Investigate any charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer or any officer, agent, trustee, member, or employee of the
organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (b)   Examine the accounts and records of the charitable organization,
distributor, or manufacturer or of any officer, agent, trustee, member, or
employee of the organization, distributor, or manufacturer;
         (c)   Conduct inspections, audits, and observations of bingo or games
of chance;
         (d)   Conduct inspections of the premises where bingo or games of
chance are conducted or where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed;
         (e)   Take any other necessary and reasonable action to determine if a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 has occurred
and to determine whether R.C. § 2915.11, or any substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, has been complied with.
      (2)   If any law enforcement agency has reasonable grounds to believe
that a charitable organization, distributor, or manufacturer or an officer,
agent, trustee, member, or employee of the organization, distributor, or
manufacturer has violated any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
the law enforcement agency may proceed by action in the proper court to enforce
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, provided that the law enforcement agency
shall give written notice to the Attorney General when commencing an action as
described in this division.
   (I)   No person shall destroy, alter, conceal, withhold, or deny access to
any accounts or records of a charitable organization, distributor, or
manufacturer that have been requested for examination, or obstruct, impede, or
interfere with any inspection, audit, or observation of bingo or a game of
chance, of premises where bingo or a game of chance is conducted, or of
premises where bingo supplies are manufactured or distributed, or refuse to
comply with any reasonable request of, or obstruct, impede, or interfere with
any other reasonable action undertaken by, the Attorney General or a law
enforcement agency pursuant to division (H) of this section.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (A) or (I) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.10)
§ 134.08 REQUIREMENTS FOR BINGO GAME OPERATORS.
   (A)   No person shall be a bingo game operator unless the person is 18 years
of age or older.
   (B)   No person who has been convicted of a felony or a gambling offense in
any jurisdiction shall be a bingo game operator.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. Whoever violates division (B) of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2915.11)
§ 134.09 BINGO GAMES FOR AMUSEMENT ONLY.
   (A)   Sections 134.06 through 134.13 and 134.15 do not apply to bingo games
that are conducted for the purpose of amusement only. A bingo game is conducted
for the purpose of amusement only if it complies with all of the requirements
specified in either division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section.
      (1)   (a)   The participants do not pay any money or any other thing of
value, including an admission fee or any fee, for bingo cards or sheets,
objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo, for the
privilege of participating in the bingo game, or to defray any costs of the
game, or pay tips or make donations during or immediately before or after the
bingo game.
         (b)   All prizes awarded during the course of the game are non-
monetary, and in the form of merchandise, goods, or entitlement to goods or
services only, and the total value of all prizes awarded during the game is
less than $100.
         (c)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (d)   The bingo game is not conducted either during or within ten
hours of any of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.11 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   A scheme or game of chance, or bingo described in R.C. §
2915.01(O)(2).
         (e)   The number of players participating in the bingo game does not
exceed 50.
      (2)   (a)   The participants do not pay money or any other thing of value
as an admission fee, and no participant is charged more than $0.25 to purchase
a bingo card or sheet, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo.
         (b)   The total amount of money paid by all of the participants for
bingo cards or sheets, objects to cover the spaces, or other devices used in
playing bingo does not exceed $100.
         (c)   All of the money paid for bingo cards or sheets, objects to
cover spaces, or other devices used in playing bingo is used only to pay
winners monetary and nonmonetary prizes and to provide refreshments.
         (d)   The total value of all prizes awarded during the game does not
exceed $100.
         (e)   No commission, wages, salary, reward, tip, donation, gratuity,
or other form of compensation, either directly or indirectly, and regardless of
the source, is paid to any bingo game operator for work or labor performed at
the site of the bingo game.
         (f)   The bingo game is not conducted during or within ten hours of
either of the following:
            1.   A bingo session during which a charitable bingo game is
conducted pursuant to R.C. §§ 2915.07 through 2915.15 or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance;
            2.   A scheme of chance or a game of chance, or bingo described in
R.C. § 2915.01(O)(2).
         (g)   All of the participants reside at the premises where the bingo
game is conducted.
         (h)   The bingo games are conducted on different days of the week and
not more than twice in a calendar week.
   (B)   The Attorney General or any local law enforcement agency may
investigate the conduct of a bingo game that purportedly is conducted for
purposes of amusement only if there is reason to believe that the purported
amusement bingo game does not comply with the requirements of either division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section. A local law enforcement agency may proceed by
action in the proper court to enforce this section if the local law enforcement
agency gives written notice to the Attorney General when commencing the action.
(R.C. § 2915.12)
§ 134.10 PROHIBITIONS WHERE INSTANT BINGO GAME IS CONDUCTED.
   (A)   No charitable organization that conducts instant bingo shall do any of
the following:
      (1)   Fail to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 2915.09(A)(1), (A)
(2), and (A)(3), or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
      (2)   Conduct instant bingo unless either of the following applies:
         (a)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(3), is a charitable organization as defined in R.C. §
2915.01, is in good standing in the state pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08, and is in
compliance with R.C. Chapter 1716;
         (b)   That organization is, and has received from the Internal Revenue
Service a determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the
organization is, exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a), is
described in IRC § 501(c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), or (c)(19) or is a veteran’s
organization described in IRC § 501(c)(4), and conducts instant bingo under
R.C. § 2915.13.
      (3)   Conduct instant bingo on any day, at any time, or at any premises
not specified on the organization’s license issued pursuant to R.C. § 2915.08;
      (4)   Permit any person whom the organization knows or should have known
has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction to be a
bingo game operator in the conduct of instant bingo;
      (5)   Purchase or lease supplies used to conduct instant bingo or punch
board games from any person except a distributor licensed under R.C. §
2915.081;
      (6)   Sell or provide any instant bingo ticket or card for a price
different from the price printed on it by the manufacturer on either the
instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare;
      (7)   Sell an instant bingo ticket or card to a person under 18 years of
age;
      (8)   Fail to keep unsold instant bingo tickets or cards for less than
three years;
      (9)   Pay any compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting
instant bingo that is conducted by the organization or for preparing, selling,
or serving food or beverages at the site of the instant bingo game, permit any
auxiliary unit or society of the organization to pay compensation to any bingo
game operator who prepares, sells, or serves food or beverages at an instant
bingo game conducted by the organization, or permit any auxiliary unit or
society of the organization to prepare, sell, or serve food or beverages at an
instant bingo game conducted by the organization, if the auxiliary unit or
society pays any compensation to the bingo game operators who prepare, sell, or
serve the food or beverages;
      (10)   Pay fees to any person for any services performed in relation to
an instant bingo game, except as provided in R.C. § 2915.093(D);
      (11)   Pay fees to any person who provides refreshments to the
participants in an instant bingo game;
      (12)   (a)   Allow instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold to bingo
game operators at a premises at which the organization sells instant bingo
tickets or cards or to be sold to employees of a D permit holder who are
working at a premises at which instant bingo tickets or cards are sold;
         (b)   Division (A)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit a licensed
charitable organization or a bingo game operator from giving any person an
instant bingo ticket as a prize in place of a cash prize won by a participant
in an instant bingo game. In no case shall an instant bingo ticket or card be
sold or provided for a price different from the price printed on it by the
manufacturer on either the instant bingo ticket or card or on the game flare.
      (13)   Fail to display its bingo license, and the serial numbers of the
deal of instant bingo tickets or cards to be sold, conspicuously at each
premises at which it sells instant bingo tickets or cards;
      (14)   Possess a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards that was not
purchased from a distributor licensed under R.C. § 2915.081 as reflected on an
invoice issued by the distributor that contains all of the information required
by R.C. § 2915.10(E);
      (15)   Fail, once it opens a deal of instant bingo tickets or cards, to
continue to sell the tickets or cards in that deal until the tickets or cards
with the top two highest tiers of prizes in that deal are sold;
      (16)   Possess bingo supplies that were not obtained in accordance with
R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (B)   A charitable organization may purchase, lease, or use instant bingo
ticket dispensers to sell instant bingo tickets or cards.
   (C)   Pursuant to R.C. § 2915.091(C), the Attorney General may adopt rules
in accordance with R.C. Chapter 119 that govern the conduct of instant bingo by
charitable organizations.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section or a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section is guilty of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except
as otherwise provided in this division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (A) of this section or of such a rule adopted under
division (C) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.091)
§ 134.11 RAFFLE DRAWINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a person or entity
may conduct a raffle to raise money for the person or entity and does not need
a license to conduct bingo in order to conduct a raffle drawing that is not for
profit if the person or entity is any of the following:
         (a)   Exempt from federal income taxation under I.R.C. § 501(a) and
described in I.R.C. § 501(c)(3);
         (b)   A school district, community school established under R.C.
Chapter 3314, STEM school established under R.C. Chapter 3326, college-
preparatory boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328 or chartered
nonpublic school;
         (c)   Exempt from federal income taxation under I.R.C. § 501(a) and
described in I.R.C. § 501(c)(4), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10) or
501(c)(19).
      (2)   If a person or entity that is described in division (A)(1)(c) of
this section conducts a raffle, the person or entity shall distribute at least
50% of the net profit from the raffle to a charitable purpose described in R.C.
§ 2915.01(V) or to a department or agency of the federal government, the state
or any political subdivision.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, no person shall
conduct a raffle drawing that is for profit or a raffle drawing that is not for
profit.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
conduct of a raffle. Except as otherwise provided in this division, illegal
conduct of a raffle is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of a violation of division (B) of this section,
illegal conduct of a raffle is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
(R.C. § 2915.092)
§ 134.12 INSTANT BINGO OTHER THAN AT BINGO SESSIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, RETAIL INCOME FROM ALL COMMERCIAL ACTIVITY
means the income that a person receives from the provision of goods, services,
or activities that are provided at the location where instant bingo other than
at a bingo session is conducted, including the sale of instant bingo tickets. A
religious organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), at not more than one location at which
it conducts its charitable programs, may include donations from its members and
guests as retail income.
   (B)   (1)   If a charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant
bingo other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C.
§ 2915.08, the charitable instant bingo organization shall enter into a written
contract with the owner or lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is
conducted to allow the owner or lessor to assist in the conduct of instant
bingo other than at a bingo session, identify each location where the instant
bingo other than at a bingo session is being conducted, and identify the owner
or lessor of each location.
      (2)   A charitable instant bingo organization that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued under R.C. §
2915.08 is not required to enter into a written contract with the owner or
lessor of the location at which the instant bingo is conducted provided that
the owner or lessor is not assisting in the conduct of the instant bingo other
than at a bingo session and provided that the conduct of the instant bingo
other than at a bingo session at that location is not more than five days per
calendar year and not more than ten hours per day.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (F) of this section, no charitable
instant bingo organization shall conduct instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at a location where the primary source of retail income from all
commercial activity at that location is the sale of instant bingo tickets.
   (D)   (1)   The owner or lessor of a location that enters into a contract
pursuant to division (B) of this section shall pay the full gross profit to the
charitable instant bingo organization, in return for the deal of instant bingo
tickets. The owner or lessor may retain the money that the owner or lessor
receives for selling the instant bingo tickets, provided, however, that after
the deal has been sold, the owner or lessor shall pay to the charitable instant
bingo organization the value of any unredeemed instant bingo prizes remaining
in the deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (2)   The charitable instant bingo organization shall pay 6% of the total
gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets for the purpose of
reimbursing the owner or lessor for expenses described in this division.
      (3)   As used in this division, EXPENSES means those items provided for
in R.C. § 2915.01(GG)(4), (GG)(5), (GG)(6), (GG)(7), (GG)(8), (GG)(12), and
(GG)(13) and that percentage of the owner’s or lessor’s rent for the location
where instant bingo is conducted. Expenses, in the aggregate, shall not exceed
6% of the total gross receipts of any deal of instant bingo tickets.
      (4)   As used in this division, FULL GROSS PROFIT means the amount by
which the total receipts of all instant bingo tickets, if the deal has been
sold in full, exceeds the amount that would be paid out if all prizes were
redeemed.
   (E)   A charitable instant bingo organization shall provide the Attorney
General with all of the following information:
      (1)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has terminated a
contract entered into pursuant to division (B) of this section with an owner or
lessor of a location;
      (2)   That the charitable instant bingo organization has entered into a
written contract pursuant to division (B) of this section with a new owner or
lessor of a location;
      (3)   That the charitable instant bingo organization is aware of conduct
by the owner or lessor of a location at which instant bingo is conducted that
is in violation of R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (F)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a volunteer
firefighter’s organization that is exempt from federal income taxation under
IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), that conducts instant bingo
other than at a bingo session on the premises where the organization conducts
firefighter training, that has conducted instant bingo continuously for at
least five years prior to July 1, 2003, and that, during each of those five
years, had gross receipts of at least $1,500,000.
(R.C. § 2915.093)
   (G)   (1)   Subject to the requirements of R.C. §§ 2915.14 and 2915.15
concerning electronic instant bingo, a veteran’s organization, a fraternal
organization, or a sporting organization authorized to conduct a bingo session
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 2915 may conduct instant bingo, electronic instant
bingo, or both other than at a bingo session under a type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08 if all of the following apply:
         (a)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to 12
hours during any day, provided that the sale does not begin earlier than 10:00
a.m. and ends not later than 2:00 a.m.
         (b)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization limits the sale of instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to
its own premises and to its own members and invited guests.
         (c)   The veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization is raising money for an organization that is described in IRC §
509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental unit or an
organization that maintains its principal place of business in this state, that
is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC
§ 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this state and executes a written
contract with that organization as required in division (G)(2) of this section.
      (2)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo
pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section is raising money for another
organization that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is
either a governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal
place of business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation
under IRC § 501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing
in this state, the veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall execute a written contract with the organization that is
described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a governmental
unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of business in this
state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC § 501(a) and
described in IRC § 501(c), and that is in good standing in this state in order
to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant bingo. That contract shall
include a statement of the percentage of the net proceeds that the veteran’s,
fraternal, or sporting organization will be distributing to the organization
that is described in IRC § 509(a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) and is either a
governmental unit or an organization that maintains its principal place of
business in this state, that is exempt from federal income taxation under IRC §
501(a) and described in IRC § 501(c)(3), and that is in good standing in this
state.
      (3)   (a)   If a veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or
sporting organization authorized to conduct instant bingo or electronic instant
bingo pursuant to division (G)(1) of this section has been issued a liquor
permit under R.C. Chapter 4303, that permit may be subject to suspension,
revocation, or cancellation if the veteran’s organization, fraternal
organization, or sporting organization violates a provision of this chapter or
R.C. Chapter 2915.
         (b)   No veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization that enters into a written contract pursuant to division (G)(2) of
this section shall violate any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915,
or permit, aid, or abet any other person in violating any provision of this
chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
      (4)   A veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting
organization shall give all required proceeds earned from the conduct of
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo to the organization with which the
veteran’s organization, fraternal organization, or sporting organization has
entered into a written contract.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (G) of this section is guilty of illegal
instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided
in this division, illegal instant bingo or electronic instant bingo conduct is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (G) of this section, illegal instant bingo
or electronic instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.13)
§ 134.13 RESTRICTIONS ON OWNER OR LESSOR OF LOCATION AT INSTANT BINGO.
   (A)   No owner or lessor of a location shall assist a charitable instant
bingo organization in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session at that location unless the owner or lessor has entered into a written
contract, as described in R.C. § 2915.093, with the charitable instant bingo
organization to assist in the conduct of instant bingo other than at a bingo
session.
   (B)   The location of the lessor or owner shall be designated as a location
where the charitable instant bingo organization conducts instant bingo other
than at a bingo session.
   (C)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate any provision of
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915, or permit, aid, or abet any other person in
violating any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915.
   (D)   No owner or lessor of a location that enters into a written contract
as prescribed in division (A) of this section shall violate the terms of the
contract.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty
of illegal instant bingo conduct. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, illegal instant bingo conduct is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of division (C) or
(D) of this section, illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If an owner or lessor of a location knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly violates division (C) or (D) of this section, any license that the
owner or lessor holds for the retail sale of any goods on the owner’s or
lessor’s premises that is issued by the state or a political subdivision is
subject to suspension, revocation, or payment of a monetary penalty at the
request of the Attorney General.
(R.C. § 2915.094)
§ 134.14 SKILL-BASED AMUSEMENT MACHINES; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall give to another person any item described in division
(1), (2), (3), or (4) of the definition for “merchandise prize” in §
134.01 in exchange for a noncash prize, toy, or novelty received as a reward
for playing or operating a skill-based amusement machine or for a free or
reduced- price game won on a skill-based amusement machine.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of skill-based
amusement machine prohibited conduct. A violation of division (A) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree for each redemption of a prize
that is involved in the violation. If the offender previously has been
convicted of a violation of division (A) of this section, a violation of that
division is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.06)
   (C)   Any regulation of skill-based amusement machines shall be governed by
this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2915 and not by R.C. Chapter 1345.
(R.C. § 2915.061)
§ 134.15 ELECTRONIC INSTANT BINGO; PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No charitable organization shall conduct electronic instant bingo
unless all of the following are true:
      (1)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in R.C. §
2915.01(J), or is a fraternal organization described in R.C. § 2915.01(L), and
the organization qualified as a veteran’s organization or fraternal
organization, as applicable, on or before June 30, 2021.
      (2)   The organization is a veteran’s organization described in I.R.C. §
501(c)(4) or is, and has received from the Internal Revenue Service a
determination letter that is currently in effect stating that the organization
is, exempt from federal income taxation under I.R.C. § 501(a), and is described
in IRC § 501(c)(7), 501(c)(8), 501(c)(10), or 501(c)(19).
      (3)   The organization has not conducted a raffle in violation of R.C. §
2915.092(B) using an electronic raffle machine, as described in Ohio Veterans
and Fraternal Charitable Coalition v. DeWine, Case No. 13-CV-13610 (C.P.
Franklin Co. February 23, 2018), at any time on or after January 1, 2022.
   (B)   No charitable organization that conducts electronic instant bingo
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Possess an electronic instant bingo system that was not obtained in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 2915 or with any rule adopted under R.C. Chapter
2915;
      (2)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on any day, at any time, or on any
premises not specified on the organization’s type II or type III license issued
under R.C. § 2915.08;
      (3)   Hold more than one valid license to conduct electronic instant
bingo at any one time;
      (4)   Conduct electronic instant bingo on more than one premises or on
any premises other than the charitable organization’s principal place of
business;
      (5)   Operate more than ten electronic bingo systems at the premises on
which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo under its
license;
      (6)   Fail to display both of the following conspicuously at the premises
on which the charitable organization conducts electronic instant bingo:
         (a)   The charitable organization’s bingo license;
         (b)   The serial number of each deal of electronic instant bingo
tickets being sold.
      (7)   Permit any person the charitable organization knows, or should have
known, to be under 18 years of age to play electronic instant bingo;
      (8)   Sell or provide to any person an electronic instant bingo ticket
for a price different from the price displayed on the game flare for that deal,
except that the charitable organization may give a participant who wins an
electronic instant bingo game an electronic instant bingo ticket as a prize in
place of a cash prize;
      (9)   Fail, once an electronic instant bingo deal is begun, to continue
to sell tickets in that deal until all prizes have been awarded;
      (10)   Permit any person whom the organization knows, or should have
known, has been convicted of a felony or gambling offense in any jurisdiction
to be a bingo game operator in the conduct of electronic instant bingo;
      (11)   Permit a bingo game operator to play electronic instant bingo;
      (12)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(12)(b) of this
section, pay compensation to a bingo game operator for conducting electronic
instant bingo.
         (b)   Division (B)(12)(a) of this section does not prohibit an
employee of a veteran’s organization or fraternal organization from redeeming
electronic instant bingo tickets or vouchers for the organization’s members or
invited guests, so long as no portion of the employee’s compensation is paid
from any bingo receipts.
      (13)   Pay consulting fees to any person in relation to electronic
instant bingo.
   (C)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, or otherwise provide or offer to
provide an electronic instant bingo system to any person for use in this
municipality unless the electronic instant bingo system has been approved under
R.C. § 2915.15.
   (D)   Whoever knowingly violates division (A), (B), or (C) of this section
or a rule adopted under R.C. § 2915.14(D) is guilty of illegal electronic
instant bingo conduct. Illegal electronic instant bingo conduct is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the offender previously has
been convicted of a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section, or any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or state law, or of a rule adopted
under R.C. § 2915.14(D), illegal instant bingo conduct is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2915.14)
CHAPTER 135: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
135.01   Definitions
   
135.02   Negligent homicide
   
135.03   Vehicular homicide; vehicular manslaughter; vehicular assault
   
135.04   Assault; negligent assault
   
135.05   Injury to persons by hunters
   
135.06   Menacing; aggravated menacing; menacing by stalking
   
135.07   Unlawful restraint
   
135.08   Unlawful collection of bodily substances
   
135.09   Coercion
   
135.10   Bigamy
   
135.11   Reserved
   
135.12   Misrepresentation relating to provision of child care
   
135.13   Nonsupport of dependents
   
135.14   Endangering children
   
135.15   Interference with custody; interference with support orders
   
135.16   Domestic violence
   
135.17   Hazing prohibited
   
135.18   Contributing to unruliness or delinquency of a child
   
135.19   Failure to provide for a person with a functional impairment
   
135.20   Patient abuse or neglect; patient endangerment; exceptions; false
statements; retaliation
   
135.21   Interference with right of person to engage in housing transactions
because of race, religion, or the like
   
135.22   Ethnic intimidation
   
135.23   Violating a protection order, consent agreement, anti-stalking
protection order or order issued by a court of another state
   
135.24   Adulteration of food
   
135.25   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products; transaction scans
   
135.26   Nonsmoking areas in places of public assembly
   
135.27   Spreading contagion
   
135.28   Abuse of a corpse
Statutory reference:
   Child care, misrepresentations by providers and failure to disclose death or
serious injuries, misdemeanors, see R.C. §§ 2919.223 et seq.
   Extortionate extension of credit, see R.C. §§ 2905.21 through 2905.24
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
   Rights of victims of crimes, see R.C. Chapter 2930
§ 135.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§
135.01 through
135.06, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ANOTHER’S UNBORN or OTHER PERSON’S UNBORN. A member of the species Homo
sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of another during a period that
begins with fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth
occurs.
      UNLAWFUL TERMINATION OF ANOTHER’S PREGNANCY. Causing the death of an
unborn member of the species Homo sapiens who is or was carried in the womb of
another, as a result of injuries inflicted during the period that begins with
fertilization and that continues unless and until live birth occurs.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, in no case shall the
definitions of the terms “another’s unborn”, “other person’s unborn” and
“unlawful termination of another’s pregnancy” that are set forth in division
(A) of this section be applied or construed in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(1) of this section, in
a manner so that the offense prohibits or is construed as prohibiting any
pregnant woman or her physician from performing an abortion with the consent of
the pregnant woman, with the consent of the pregnant woman implied by law in a
medical emergency, or with the approval of one otherwise authorized by law to
consent to medical treatment on behalf of the pregnant woman. An abortion that
violates the conditions described in the immediately preceding sentence may be
punished as any violation of R.C. § 2903.01, 2903.02, 2903.03, 2903.04,
2903.05, 2903.06, 2903.08, 2903.11, 2903.12, 2903.13, 2903.14, 2903.21 or
2903.22, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, as applicable. An
abortion that does not violate the conditions described in the second
immediately preceding sentence but that does violate R.C. § 2919.12, 2919.13
(B), 2919.15, 2919.151, 2919.17 or 2919.18, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, may be punished as a violation of such section, as
applicable.
      (2)   In a manner so that the offense is applied or is construed as
applying to a woman based on an act or omission of the woman that occurs while
she is or was pregnant and that results in any of the following:
         (a)   Her delivery of a stillborn baby.
         (b)   Her causing, in any other manner, the death in utero of a
viable, unborn human that she is carrying.
         (c)   Her causing the death of her child who is born alive but who
dies from one or more injuries that are sustained while the child is a viable,
unborn human.
         (d)   Her causing her child who is born alive to sustain one or more
injuries while the child is a viable, unborn human.
         (e)   Her causing, threatening to cause, or attempting to cause, in
any other manner, an injury, illness, or other psychological illness or
condition, regardless of its duration or gravity, to a viable, unborn human
that she is carrying.
(R.C. § 2903.09)
§ 135.02 NEGLIGENT HOMICIDE.
   (A)   No person shall negligently cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another’s pregnancy by means of a deadly weapon or dangerous
ordnance, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of negligent homicide, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.05)
Statutory reference:
   Reckless homicide, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.041
§ 135.03 VEHICULAR HOMICIDE; VEHICULAR MANSLAUGHTER; VEHICULAR ASSAULT.
   (A)    No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, snowmobile, locomotive,
watercraft, or aircraft, shall cause the death of another or the unlawful
termination of another's pregnancy in any of the following ways:
      (1)   (a)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4511.19(A) or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
1547.11(A), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance;
         (c)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of R.C. §
4561.15(A)(3), or of a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Recklessly;
         (b)    As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck,
or motorcycle in a construction zone, a reckless operation offense, provided
that this division applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose
pregnancy is unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of
the offender's commission of the reckless operation offense in the construction
zone and does not apply as described in division (D) of this section.
      (3)   In one of the following ways:
         (a)   Negligently;
         (b)   As the proximate result of committing, while operating or
participating in the operation of a motor vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck,
or motorcycle in a construction zone, a speeding offense, provided that this
division applies only if the person whose death is caused or whose pregnancy is
unlawfully terminated is in the construction zone at the time of the offender's
commission of the speeding offense in the construction zone and does not apply
as described in division (D) of this section.
      (4)   As the proximate result of committing a violation of any provision
of any section contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor or of a
municipal ordinance that, regardless of the penalty set by ordinance for the
violation, is substantially equivalent to any provision of any section
contained in R.C. Title 45 that is a minor misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of aggravated vehicular homicide, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section is guilty of
vehicular homicide. Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
homicide is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular homicide committed in
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving
under a suspension or cancellation imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other
provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was operating a motor vehicle or
motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege, and was not eligible for renewal of the offender’s driver’s license
or commercial driver’s license without examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if
the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation
of this section or any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault
offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class four suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of
vehicular manslaughter. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
vehicular manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the second degree. Vehicular
manslaughter is a misdemeanor of the first degree if, at the time of the
offense, the offender was driving under a suspension or cancellation imposed
under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio Revised Code or was
operating a motor vehicle or motorcycle, did not have a valid driver’s license,
commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit, probationary
license, or nonresident operating privilege, and was not eligible for renewal
of the offender’s driver’s license or commercial driver’s license without
examination under R.C. § 4507.10 or if the offender previously has been
convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section or any traffic-
related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed pursuant to this
division, the court shall impose upon the offender a class six suspension of
the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license, temporary
instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege
from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6) or, if the offender previously
has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of this section, any
traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense, or a traffic-
related murder, felonious assault, or attempted murder offense, a class four
suspension of the offender’s driver’s license, commercial driver’s license,
temporary instruction permit, probationary license, or nonresident operating
privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
   (C)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least 15 days on an
offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(3)(b) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
   (D)   Divisions (A)(2)(b) and (A)(3)(b) of this section do not apply in a
particular construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. §
2903.081 are erected in that construction zone in accordance with the
guidelines and design specifications established by the Director of
Transportation under R.C. § 5501.27. The failure to erect signs of the type
described in R.C. § 2903.081 in a particular construction zone in accordance
with those guidelines and design specifications does not limit or affect the
application of division (A)(1), (A)(2)(a), (A)(3)(a), or (A)(4) of this section
in that construction zone or the prosecution of any person who violates any of
those divisions in that construction zone.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section:
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         MINI-TRUCK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
         RECKLESS OPERATION OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.20 or a
municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to R.C. § 4511.20.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 4511.21 or a municipal
ordinance pertaining to speed.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Means a
violation of R.C. § 2903.04 in circumstances in which division (D) of that
section applies, a violation of R.C. § 2903.06 or 2903.08, or a violation of
R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.07, or 2903.08 as they existed prior to March 23, 2000.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED MURDER, FELONIOUS ASSAULT, OR ATTEMPTED MURDER
OFFENSE. Means a violation of R.C. § 2903.01 or R.C. § 2903.02 in circumstances
in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to commit the
violation, a violation of R.C. § 2903.11(A)(2) in circumstances in which the
deadly weapon used in the commission of the violation is a motor vehicle, or an
attempt to commit aggravated murder or murder in violation of R.C. § 2923.02 in
circumstances in which the offender used a motor vehicle as the means to
attempt to commit the aggravated murder or murder.
         UTILITY VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4501.01.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, when a penalty or suspension is
enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a prior
or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the specified
law or the specified offense includes any violation of any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or current or former
law of this or another state or the United States.
(R.C. § 2903.06)
   (F)   Vehicular assault.
      (1)   No person, while operating or participating in the operation of a
motor vehicle, motorcycle, utility vehicle, or mini-truck, shall cause serious
physical harm to another person or another's unborn as the proximate result of
committing, while operating or participating in the operation of a motor
vehicle, utility vehicle, mini-truck, or motorcycle in a construction zone, a
speeding offense, provided that this division applies only if the person to
whom the serious physical harm is caused or to whose unborn the serious
physical harm is caused is in the construction zone at the time of the
offender's commission of the speeding offense in the construction zone and does
not apply as described in division (F)(4) of this section.
      (2)   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, vehicular
assault committed in violation of division (F)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. Vehicular assault committed in violation of
division (F)(1) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law if, at the time of the offense, the offender was driving under a
suspension imposed under R.C. Chapter 4510 or any other provision of the Ohio
Revised Code or if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (F)(1) of this section, R.C. § 2903.08, or
any traffic-related homicide, manslaughter, or assault offense.
         (b)   In addition to any other sanctions imposed, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender’s driver’s
license, commercial driver’s license, temporary instruction permit,
probationary license, or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4).
      (3)   The court shall impose a mandatory jail term of at least seven days
on an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation
of division (F)(1) of this section and may impose upon the offender a longer
jail term as authorized pursuant to R.C. § 2929.24.
      (4)   Division (F)(1) of this section does not apply in a particular
construction zone unless signs of the type described in R.C. § 2903.081 are
erected in that construction zone in accordance with the guidelines and design
specifications established by the Director of Transportation under R.C. §
5501.27.
      (5)   As used in this division (F):
         CONSTRUCTION ZONE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5501.27.
         MANDATORY JAIL TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
         SPEEDING OFFENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
         TRAFFIC-RELATED HOMICIDE, MANSLAUGHTER, OR ASSAULT OFFENSE. Has the
same meaning as in R.C. § 2903.06.
      (6)   For the purposes of this division (F), when a penalty or suspension
is enhanced because of a prior or current violation of a specified law or a
prior or current specified offense, the reference to the violation of the
specified law or the specified offense includes any violation of any
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, former law of this state, or
current or former law of another state or the United States.
(R.C. 2903.08(A)(3), (C)(3), (D)(3), (E) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Court to suspend driver’s license, see R.C. §§ 4510.05 and 4510.07
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.04 ASSAULT; NEGLIGENT ASSAULT.
   (A)   Assault.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm
to another or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
guilty of assault. Except as provided in R.C. § 2903.13(C), assault is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   If an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to assault when
it is a misdemeanor also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a specification as
described in R.C. § 2941.1423 (victim of the offense was a woman whom the
defendant knew was pregnant at the time of the offense) that was included in
the indictment, count in the indictment, or information charging the offense,
the court shall sentence the offender to a mandatory jail term as provided in
R.C. § 2929.24(F).
      (5)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section does not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts or a course of
behavior that can be prosecuted under division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division
(A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, the other section of the Ohio Revised Code or
both sections. However, if an offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a
violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section and also is convicted of
or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.22, or any substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, based on the same conduct involving the same
victim that was the basis of the violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this
section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar import under R.C. §
2941.25.
(R.C. § 2903.13)
   (B)   Negligent assault.
      (1)   No person shall negligently, by means of a deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, cause physical harm to another
or to another’s unborn.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
negligent assault, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
(R.C. § 2903.14)
Statutory reference:
   Aggravated and felonious assault, see R.C. §§ 2903.11 and 2903.12
   Felony assault offenses, see R.C. § 2903.13(C)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
   Strangulation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.18
   Vehicular assault and aggravated vehicular assault, felony offenses, see
R.C. § 2903.08
§ 135.05 INJURY TO PERSONS BY HUNTERS.
   (A)   No person in the act of hunting, pursuing, taking, or killing a wild
animal shall act in a negligent, careless, or reckless manner so as to injure
persons.
(R.C. § 1533.171(A))
   (B)   Whoever violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
(R.C. § 1533.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Violation, license revocation, see R.C. § 1533.171(B) through (E)
§ 135.06 MENACING; AGGRAVATED MENACING; MENACING BY STALKING.
   (A)   Menacing.
      (1)   (a)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn or a member of the other person’s immediate
family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that the
offender will cause physical harm to the person or property of the other
person, the other person’s unborn or a member of the other person’s immediate
family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of the
offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association or other
organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
         (b)   No person shall knowingly place or attempt to place another in
reasonable fear of physical harm or death by displaying a deadly weapon,
regardless of whether the deadly weapon displayed is operable or inoperable, if
either of the following applies:
            1.   The other person is an emergency service responder, the person
knows or reasonably should know that the other person is an emergency service
responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage in the specified
conduct against an emergency service responder.
            2.   The other person is a family or household member or co-worker
of an emergency service responder, the person knows or reasonably should know
that the other person is a family or household member or co-worker of an
emergency service responder, and it is the person’s specific purpose to engage
in the specified conduct against a family or household member or co-worker of
an emergency service responder.
      (2)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of menacing. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, menacing is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. If the victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a public
children services agency or a private child placing agency and the offense
relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or if the victim of the offense is an
emergency service responder in the performance of the responder’s official
duties, menacing is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (A)(2)(b) of this
section, a misdemeanor of the first degree; and
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency or an emergency service responder, and that prior offense
related to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated performance
of official responsibilities or duties or to the responder’s performance of the
responder’s official duties, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (3)   A prosecution for a violation of division (A) of this section does
not preclude a prosecution of a violation of any other section of the Ohio
Revised Code. One or more acts, a series of acts or a course of behavior that
can be prosecuted under division (A) of this section or any other section of
the Ohio Revised Code may be prosecuted under division (A) of this section, the
other section of the Ohio Revised Code or both sections. However, if an
offender is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A) of
this section and also is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of R.C. §
2903.13, or any substantially similar municipal ordinance, based on the same
conduct involving the same victim that was the basis of the violation of
division (A) of this section, the offenses are allied offenses of similar
import under R.C. § 2941.25.
      (4)   As used in this section:
         CO-WORKER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 2903.13.
         EMERGENCY SERVICE RESPONDER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Have the same meanings as in R.C. §
2903.13.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.22)
   (B)   Aggravated menacing.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly cause another to believe that the
offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of the
other person, such other person’s unborn, or a member of such other person’s
immediate family. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief
that the offender will cause serious physical harm to the person or property of
the other person, the other person’s unborn, or a member of the other person’s
immediate family, the other person’s belief may be based on words or conduct of
the offender that are directed at or identify a corporation, association, or
other organization that employs the other person or to which the other person
belongs.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B)(1) of this section is guilty of
aggravated menacing. Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(2),
aggravated menacing is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the victim of the
offense is an officer or employee of a public children services agency or a
private child placing agency and the offense relates to the officer’s or
employee’s performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities
or duties, aggravated menacing is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law or, if the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties,
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   As used in this division (B), ORGANIZATION includes an entity that
is a governmental employer.
(R.C. § 2903.21)
   (C)   Menacing by stalking.
      (1)   (a)   No person by engaging in a pattern of conduct shall knowingly
cause another person to believe that the offender will cause physical harm to
the other person or a family or household member of the other person or cause
mental distress to the other person or a family or household member of the
other person. In addition to any other basis for the other person’s belief that
the offender will cause physical harm to the other person or the other person’s
family or household member or mental distress to the other person or the other
person’s family or household member, the other person’s belief or mental
distress may be based on words or conduct of the offender that are directed at
or identify a corporation, association, or other organization that employs the
other person or to which the other person belongs.
         (b)   No person, through the use of any form of written communication
or any electronic method of remotely transferring information, including but
not limited to any computer, computer network, computer program, computer
system, or telecommunication device, shall post a message or use any
intentionally written or verbal graphic gesture with purpose to do either of
the following:
            1.   Violate division (C)(1)(a) of this section;
            2.   Urge or incite another to commit a violation of division (C)
(1)(a) of this section.
         (c)   No person, with a sexual motivation, shall violate division (C)
(1)(a) or (C)(1)(b) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
menacing by stalking.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, menacing by stalking is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   Menacing by stalking is a felony, to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law, if any of the following applies:
            1.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 2903.211 or a violation of R.C. § 2911.211, or
a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance to either of these offenses.
            2.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender made a threat of physical harm to or
against the victim, or as a result of an offense committed under division (C)
(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a third person induced by the offender’s
posted message made a threat of physical harm to or against the victim.
            3.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender trespassed on the land or premises
where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school, or as a result of an
offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) or (C)(1)(c) of this section, a
third person induced by the offender’s posted message trespassed on the land or
premises where the victim lives, is employed, or attends school.
            4.   The victim of the offense is a minor.
            5.   The offender has a history of violence towards the victim or
any other person or a history of other violent acts towards the victim or any
other person.
            6.   While committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a) of this
section or a violation of division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct
in violation of division (C)(1)(a) of this section, the offender had a deadly
weapon on or about the offender’s person or under the offender’s control.
Division (C)(2)(b)6. of this section does not apply in determining the penalty
for a violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section or a violation of
division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on conduct in violation of division
(C)(1)(b) of this section.
            7.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
the subject of a protection order issued under R.C. § 2903.213 or R.C. §
2903.214, regardless of whether or not the person to be protected under the
order is the victim of the offense or another person.
            8.   In committing the offense under division (C)(1)(a), (C)(1)(b)
or (C)(1)(c) of this section, the offender caused serious physical harm to the
premises at which the victim resides, to the real property on which that
premises is located, or to any personal property located on that premises, or
as a result of an offense committed under division (C)(1)(b) of this section or
an offense committed under division (C)(1)(c) of this section based on a
violation of division (C)(1)(b) of this section, a third person induced by the
offender’s posted message caused serious physical harm to that premises, that
real property, or any personal property on that premises.
            9.   Prior to committing the offense, the offender had been
determined to represent a substantial risk of physical harm to others as
manifested by evidence of then-recent homicidal or other violent behavior,
evidence of then-recent threats that placed another in reasonable fear of
violent behavior and serious harm, or other evidence of then-present
dangerousness.
            10.   The victim of the offense is an officer or employee of a
public children services agency or a private child placing agency and the
offense relates to the officer’s or employee’s performance or anticipated
performance of official responsibilities or duties.
            11.   The offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to an offense of violence, the victim of that prior offense was an
officer or employee of a public children services agency or private child
placing agency, and that prior offense related to the officer’s or employee’s
performance or anticipated performance of official responsibilities or duties.
      (3)   R.C. § 2919.271 applies in relation to a defendant charged with a
violation of this section.
      (4)   As used in division (C) of this section:
         COMPUTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER NETWORK. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER PROGRAM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         COMPUTER SYSTEM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         EMERGENCY FACILITY PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency facility
personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2909.04.
         EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES PERSON. Is the singular of “emergency
medical services personnel” as defined in R.C. § 2133.21.
         FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is
committed:
               a.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse, or a former spouse
of the person;
               b.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the person, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the person;
               c.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse,
or former spouse of the person, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
person.
            2.   The natural parent of any child of whom the person against
whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this section is committed is
the other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
         MENTAL DISTRESS. Means any of the following:
            1.   Any mental illness or condition that involves some temporary
substantial incapacity;
            2.   Any mental illness or condition that would normally require
psychiatric treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health
services, whether or not any person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services.
         ORGANIZATION. Includes an entity that is a governmental employer.
         PATTERN OF CONDUCT. Means two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, or two or more actions or incidents closely
related in time, whether or not there has been a prior conviction based on any
of those actions or incidents, directed at one or more persons employed by or
belonging to the same corporation, association, or other organization. Actions
or incidents that prevent, obstruct, or delay the performance by a public
official, firefighter, rescuer, emergency medical services person, or emergency
facility person of any authorized act within the public official’s,
firefighter’s, rescuer’s, emergency medical services person’s, or emergency
facility person’s official capacity, or the posting of messages, use of
intentionally written or verbal graphic gestures, or receipt of information or
data through the use of any form of written communication or an electronic
method of remotely transferring information, including but not limited to a
computer, computer network, computer program, computer system, or
telecommunications device, may constitute a “pattern of conduct”.
         PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived
with the person against whom the act prohibited in division (C)(1)(a) of this
section is committed in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is
cohabiting with that person, or who otherwise has cohabited with the person
within five years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in
question.
         POST A MESSAGE. Means transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating, or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate, any message or
information, whether truthful or untruthful, about an individual, and whether
done under one’s own name, under the name of another, or while impersonating
another.
         PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2921.01.
         SEXUAL MOTIVATION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2971.01.
         TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
         THIRD PERSON. Means, in relation to conduct as described in division
(C)(1)(b) of this section, an individual who is neither the offender nor the
victim of the conduct.
      (5)   The prosecution does not need to prove in a prosecution under
division (C) of this section that a person requested or received psychiatric
treatment, psychological treatment, or other mental health services in order to
show that the person was caused mental distress as described in division (2) of
the definition for “mental distress” in this section.
      (6)   (a)   Division (C) of this section does not apply to a person
solely because the person provided access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control, including having provided capabilities that are incidental to
providing access or connection to or from the electronic method of remotely
transferring the information, and that do not include the creation of the
content of the material that is the subject of the access or connection. In
addition, any person providing access or connection to or from an electronic
method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s control
shall not be liable for any action voluntarily taken in good faith to block the
receipt or transmission through its service of any information that it believes
is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of this section.
         (b)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not create an
affirmative duty for any person providing access or connection to or from an
electronic method of remotely transferring information not under that person’s
control to block the receipt or transmission through its service of any
information that it believes is or will be sent in violation of division (C) of
this section except as otherwise provided by law.
         (c)   Division (C)(6)(a) of this section does not apply to a person
who conspires with a person actively involved in the creation or knowing
distribution of material in violation of division (C) of this section or who
knowingly advertises the availability of material of that nature.
(R.C. § 2903.211)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Authority of corporations to seek protection orders in certain
circumstances, see R.C. § 2903.215
   Conditions of bail for violators, see R.C. § 2903.212
   Persons who may seek relief under anti-stalking protection order; ex parte
orders, see R.C. § 2903.214
   Protection order as pretrial condition of release, see R.C. § 2903.213
§ 135.07 UNLAWFUL RESTRAINT.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so, shall knowingly restrain
another of the other person’s liberty.
   (B)   No person, without privilege to do so and with a sexual motivation,
shall knowingly restrain another of the other person’s liberty.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful restraint, a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (D)   As used in this section, SEXUAL MOTIVATION has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 2971.01.
(R.C. § 2905.03)
§ 135.08 UNLAWFUL COLLECTION OF BODILY SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly collect any blood, urine, tissue, or other
bodily substance of another person without privilege or consent to do so.
   (B)   (1)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
         (a)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a law
enforcement officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice
of a law enforcement officer, for purposes of a chemical test or tests of the
substance under R.C. § 1547.111(A)(1) or R.C. § 4511.191(A)(2) to determine the
alcohol, drug, controlled substance, metabolite of a controlled substance, or
combination content of the bodily substance;
         (b)   The collection of any bodily substance of a person by a peace
officer, or by another person pursuant to the direction or advice of a peace
officer, for purposes of a test or tests of the substance as provided in R.C. §
4506.17(A) to determine the person’s alcohol concentration or the presence of
any controlled substance or metabolite of a controlled substance.
      (2)   Division (B)(1) of this section shall not be construed as implying
that the persons identified in divisions (B)(1)(a) and (b) of this section do
not have privilege to collect the bodily substance of another person as
described in those divisions or as limiting the definition of “privilege” set
forth in R.C. § 2901.01.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of unlawful
collection of a bodily substance. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, unlawful collection of a bodily substance is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, unlawful collection of a bodily
substance is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.15)
§ 135.09 COERCION.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to coerce another into taking or refraining
from action concerning which the other person has a legal freedom of choice,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Threaten to commit any offense.
      (2)   Utter or threaten any slander against any person.
      (3)   Expose or threaten to expose any matter tending to subject any
person to hatred, contempt, or ridicule, or to damage any person’s personal or
business repute, or to impair any person’s credit.
      (4)   Institute or threaten criminal proceedings against any person.
      (5)   Take or withhold, or threaten to take or withhold official action,
or cause or threaten to cause official action to be taken or withheld.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(4) and (A)(5) of this section shall not be construed to
prohibit a prosecutor or court from doing any of the following in good faith
and in the interests of justice:
      (1)   Offering or agreeing to grant, or granting immunity from
prosecution pursuant to R.C. § 2945.44.
      (2)   In return for a plea of guilty to one or more offenses charged or
to one or more other or lesser offenses, or in return for the testimony of the
accused in a case to which the accused is not a party, offering or agreeing to
dismiss, or dismissing one or more charges pending against an accused, or
offering or agreeing to impose, or imposing a certain sentence or modification
of sentence.
      (3)   Imposing a community control sanction on certain conditions,
including without limitation requiring the offender to make restitution or
redress to the victim of the offense.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3), (A)
(4), or (A)(5) of this section that the actor’s conduct was a reasonable
response to the circumstances which occasioned it, and that the actor’s purpose
was limited to any of the following:
      (1)   Compelling another to refrain from misconduct or to desist from
further misconduct.
      (2)   Preventing or redressing a wrong or injustice.
      (3)   Preventing another from taking action for which the actor
reasonably believed the other person to be disqualified.
      (4)   Compelling another to take action which the actor reasonably
believed the other person to be under a duty to take.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of coercion, a misdemeanor of
the second degree.
   (E)   As used in this section:
      COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
      THREAT includes a direct threat and a threat by innuendo.
(R.C. § 2905.12)
§ 135.10 BIGAMY.
   (A)   No married person shall marry another or continue to cohabit with such
other person in this municipality.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section that the
actor’s spouse was continuously absent for five years immediately preceding the
purported subsequent marriage, and was not known by the actor to be alive
within that time.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of bigamy, a misdemeanor of
the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.01)
§ 135.11 RESERVED.
Editor's note: In November 2023, voters approved Issue 1, enacting Article 1,
Section 22 to the Ohio Constitution relating to reproductive rights. To ensure
that there are no conflicts with this Constitutional amendment, this section,
relating to unlawful abortion, failure to perform viability testing, and
abortion trafficking, has been removed from this code.
§ 135.12 MISREPRESENTATION RELATING TO PROVISION OF CHILD CARE.
   (A)   No child care provider shall knowingly misrepresent any factor or
condition that relates to the provision of child care and that substantially
affects the health or safety of any child or children in that provider's
facility or receiving child care from that provider to any of the following:
      (1)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child in the provider's facility or receiving child care from the
provider;
      (2)   A parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the
care of a child who is considering the provider as a child care provider for
the child;
      (3)   A public official responsible for issuing the provider a license or
certificate to provide child care;
      (4)   A public official investigating or inquiring about the provision of
child care by the provider;
      (5)   A peace officer.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, "any factor or condition that
relates to the provision of child care" includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   The person or persons who will provide child care to the child of
the parent, guardian, custodian, or other person responsible for the care of
the child, or to the children in general;
      (2)   The qualifications to provide child care of the child care
provider, of a person employed by the provider, or of a person who provides
child care as a volunteer;
      (3)   The number of children to whom child care is provided at one time
or the number of children receiving child care in the child care facility at
one time;
      (4)   The conditions or safety features of the child care facility;
      (5)   The area of the child care facility in which child care is
provided.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
misrepresentation by a child care provider, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2919.224)
§ 135.13 NONSUPPORT OF DEPENDENTS.
   (A)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide adequate support to:
      (1)   The person’s spouse, as required by law;
      (2)   The person’s child who is under age 18, or the persons’s child with
a mental or physical disability who is under age 21; and
      (3)   The person’s aged or infirm parent or adoptive parent, who from
lack of ability and means is unable to provide adequately for the parent’s own
support.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall abandon, or fail to provide support as
established by a court order to, another person whom, by court order or decree,
the person:
         (a)   Is legally obligated to support; or
         (b)   Was legally obligated to support, and an amount for support:
            1.   Was due and owing prior to the date the person’s duty to pay
current support terminated; and
            2.   Remains unpaid.
      (2)   The period of limitation under R.C. § 2901.13 applicable to
division (B)(1)(b) of this section shall begin to run on the date the person’s
duty to pay current support terminates.
   (C)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to
a child or a ward of the juvenile court becoming a dependent child, as defined
in R.C. § 2151.04, or a neglected child, as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of failure to provide
adequate support under division (A) of this section or a charge of failure to
provide support established by a court order under division (B) of this section
that the accused was unable to provide adequate support or the established
support, but did provide the support that was within his or her ability and
means.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the parent abandoned the accused or failed to support the accused
as required by law, while the accused was under age 18, or had a mental or
physical disability and was under age 21.
   (F)   It is not a defense to a charge under division (B) of this section
that the person whom a court has ordered the accused to support is being
adequately supported by someone other than the accused.
   (G)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, whoever violates
division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of nonsupport of dependents, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or if the
offender has failed to provide support under division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section for a total accumulated period of 26 weeks out of 104 consecutive
weeks, whether or not the 26 weeks were consecutive, then a violation of
division (A)(2) or (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law. If the offender previously has been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to a felony violation of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a violation of division (A)(2) or
(B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender is guilty of nonsupport of dependents by reason of
failing to provide support to his or her child as required by a child support
order issued on or after April 15, 1985, pursuant to R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231,
2151.232, 2151.33, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.31, 3115.401, or
former R.C. § 3115.31, the court, in addition to any other sentence imposed,
shall assess all court costs arising out of the charge against the person and
require the person to pay any reasonable attorney’s fees of any adverse party
other than the state, as determined by the court, that arose in relation to the
charge.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
contributing to the nonsupport of dependents, a misdemeanor of the first
degree. Each day of a violation of division (C) of this section is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.21)
§ 135.14 ENDANGERING CHILDREN.
   (A)   No person, who is the parent, guardian, custodian, person having
custody or control or person in loco parentis of a child under 18 years of age
or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age, shall
create a substantial risk to the health or safety of the child by violating a
duty of care, protection or support. It is not a violation of a duty of care,
protection or support under this division when the parent, guardian, custodian
or person having custody or control of a child treats the physical or mental
illness or disability of the child by spiritual means through prayer alone, in
accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious body.
   (B)   No person shall do any of the following to a child under 18 years of
age or a child with a mental or physical disability under 21 years of age:
      (1)   Abuse the child;
      (2)   Torture or cruelly abuse the child;
      (3)   Administer corporal punishment or other physical disciplinary
measure, or physically restrain the child in a cruel manner or for a prolonged
period, which punishment, discipline or restraint is excessive under the
circumstances and creates a substantial risk of serious physical harm to the
child;
      (4)   Repeatedly administer unwarranted disciplinary measures to a child
when there is a substantial risk that such conduct, if continued, will
seriously impair or retard the child’s mental health or development;
      (5)   Entice, coerce, permit, encourage, compel, hire, employ, use, or
allow the child to act, model, or in any other way participate in, or be
photographed for, the production, presentation, dissemination, or advertisement
of any material or performance that the offender knows or reasonably should
know is obscene, is sexually oriented matter, or is nudity-oriented matter;
      (6)   Allow the child to be on the same parcel of real property and
within 100 feet of, or, in the case of more than one housing unit on the same
parcel of real property, in the same housing unit and within 100 feet of, any
act in violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 when the person knows that the
act is occurring, whether or not any person is prosecuted for or convicted of
the violation of R.C. § 2925.04 or 2925.041 that is the basis of the violation
of this division.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall operate a vehicle, as defined by R.C. § 4511.01,
within the municipality and in violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, when one or more children under
18 years of age are in the vehicle. Notwithstanding any other provision of law,
a person may be convicted at the same trial or proceeding of a violation of
this division and a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that constitutes the basis of the charge of the
violation of this division. For purposes of R.C. §§ 4511.191 through 4511.197
and all related provisions of law, a person arrested for a violation of this
division shall be considered to be under arrest for operating a vehicle while
under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a combination of them or
for operating a vehicle with a prohibited concentration of alcohol, a
controlled substance, or a metabolite of a controlled substance in the whole
blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine.
      (2)   As used in division (C)(1) of this section:
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
         VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
   (D)   (1)   Division (B)(5) of this section does not apply to any material
or performance that is produced, presented, or disseminated for a bona fide
medical, scientific, educational, religious, governmental, judicial, or other
proper purpose, by or to a physician, psychologist, sociologist, scientist,
teacher, person pursuing bona fide studies for research, librarian, member of
the clergy, prosecutor, judge, or other person having a proper interest in the
material or performance.
      (2)   Mistake of age is not a defense to a charge under division (B)(5)
of this section.
      (3)   In a prosecution under division (B)(5) of this section, the trier
of fact may infer that an actor, model, or participant in the material or
performance involved is a juvenile if the material or performance, through its
title, text, visual representation, or otherwise, represents or depicts the
actor, model, or participant as a juvenile.
      (4)   As used in this division and division (B)(5) of this section:
         MATERIAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         NUDITY-ORIENTED MATTER means any material or performance that shows a
minor in a state of nudity and that, taken as a whole by the average person
applying contemporary community standards, appeals to the prurient interest.
         OBSCENE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         PERFORMANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2907.01.
         SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATTER. Means any material or performance that shows
a minor participating or engaging in sexual activity, masturbation, or
bestiality.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of endangering children.
      (1)   If the offender violates division (A) or (B)(1) of this section,
endangering children is one of the following:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(1)(b), (E)(1)(c) or
(E)(1)(d), a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of an offense
under this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, or of any offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to
the delinquency of or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided
in division (E)(1)(c) or (E)(1)(d) of this section, endangering children is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation is a violation of division (A) of this section
and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   If the violation is a violation of division (B)(1) of this
section and results in serious physical harm to the child involved, endangering
children is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the offender violates division (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5) or
(B)(6) of this section, endangering children is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the offender violates division (C) of this section, the offender
shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c), endangering
children in violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
or if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this section
or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any
offense involving neglect, abandonment, or contributing to the delinquency of
or physical abuse of a child, except as otherwise provided in division (E)(3)
(c) of this section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the child
and if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, R.C. § 2903.06, 2903.08, 2919.22(C) or former R.C. § 2903.07 as it
existed prior to March 23, 2000, or R.C. § 2903.04, in a case in which the
offender was subject to the sanctions described in division (D) of that
section, endangering children in violation of division (C) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (d)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction it imposes upon the offender pursuant to
divisions (E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b) or (E)(3)(c) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law, and in addition to any suspension of the offender’s
driver’s license or commercial driver’s license or permit or nonresident
operating privilege under R.C. Chapter 4506, 4509, 4510, or 4511, or any other
provision of law, the court also may impose upon the offender a class seven
suspension of the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit
or nonresident operating privilege from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(7).
         (e)   In addition to any term of imprisonment, fine, or other
sentence, penalty or sanction imposed upon the offender pursuant to division
(E)(3)(a), (E)(3)(b), (E)(3)(c) or (E)(3)(d) of this section or pursuant to any
other provision of law for the violation of division (C) of this section, if as
a part of the same trial or proceeding the offender also is convicted of or
pleads guilty to a separate charge charging the violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, the offender also
shall be sentenced in accordance with R.C. § 4511.19, or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, for that violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
   (F)   (1)   If a person violates division (C) of this section and if, at the
time of the violation, there were two or more children under 18 years of age in
the motor vehicle involved in the violation, the offender may be convicted of a
violation of division (C) of this section for each of the children, but the
court may sentence the offender for only one of the violations.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation
of division (C) of this section but the person is not also convicted of and
does not also plead guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A),
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the
charge of the violation of division (C) of this section, both the following
apply:
            1.   For purposes of the provisions of R.C. § 4511.19, or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that set forth the penalties and
sanctions for a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, the conviction of or plea of guilty to the violation of
division (C) of this section shall not constitute a violation of R.C. § 4511.19
(A), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
            2.   For purposes of the provisions of law that refers to a
conviction of or plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and that is not described in
division (F)(2)(a)1. of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty to
the violation of division (C) of this section shall constitute a conviction or
plea of guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of
division (C) of this section and the person also is convicted of or pleads
guilty to a separate charge of violating R.C. § 4511.19(A), or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, that was the basis of the charge of the
violation of division (C) of this section, the conviction of or plea of guilty
to the violation of division (C) of this section shall not constitute, for the
purposes of any provision of law that refers to a conviction of or a plea of
guilty to a violation of R.C. § 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, a conviction of or a plea of guilty to a violation of R.C.
§ 4511.19(A) or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
(R.C. § 2919.22(A) - (E), (H))
Statutory reference:
   Community service, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(F)
   License suspension, requirements, see R.C. § 2919.22(G)
   Permitting child abuse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2903.15
§ 135.15 INTERFERENCE WITH CUSTODY; INTERFERENCE WITH SUPPORT ORDERS.
   (A)   Interference with custody.
      (1)   No person, knowing that he or she is without privilege to do so or
being reckless in that regard, shall entice, take, keep, or harbor a person
identified in division (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section from
the parent, guardian, or custodian of the person identified in division (A)(1)
(a), (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section:
         (a)   A child under the age of 18, or a child with a mental or
physical disability under the age of 21;
         (b)   A person committed by law to an institution for delinquent,
unruly, neglected, abused, or dependent children;
         (c) A person committed by law to an institution for persons with
mental illnesses or an institution for persons with intellectual disabilities.
      (2)   No person shall aid, abet, induce, cause, or encourage a child or a
ward of the juvenile court who has been committed to the custody of any person,
department, or public or private institution to leave the custody of that
person, department, or institution without legal consent.
      (3)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of enticing or taking
under division (A)(1)(a) of this section that the actor reasonably believed
that his or her conduct was necessary to preserve the child’s health or safety.
It is an affirmative defense to a charge of keeping or harboring under division
(A)(1) of this section that the actor in good faith gave notice to law
enforcement or judicial authorities within a reasonable time after the child or
committed person came under his or her shelter, protection, or influence.
      (4)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interference with
custody.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this subdivision, a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
child who is the subject of a violation of division (A)(1)(a) is removed from
the state or if the offender previously has been convicted of an offense under
this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law. If the child who is the subject of a violation of
division (A)(1)(a) suffers physical harm as a result of the violation, a
violation of division (A)(1)(a) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
         (b)   A violation of division (A)(1)(b) or (A)(1)(c) of this section
is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
         (c)   A violation of division (A)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the first degree. Each day of a violation of division (A)(2) is a separate
offense.
(R.C. § 2919.23)
   (B)   Interference with support orders.
      (1)   No person, by using physical harassment or threats of violence
against another person, shall interfere with the other person’s initiation or
continuance of, or attempt to prevent the other person from initiating or
continuing, an action to issue or modify a support order under R.C. Chapter
3115, or under R.C. § 2151.23, 2151.231, 2151.232, 2151.33, 2151.36, 2151.361,
2151.49, 3105.18, 3105.21, 3109.05, 3109.19, 3111.13, 3113.04, 3113.07, or
3113.31.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of interfering with an
action to issue or modify a support order, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a
violation of this division (B) or a substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or R.C. § 3111.19, interfering with an action to issue or
modify a support order is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
(R.C. § 2919.231)
§ 135.16 DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause or attempt to cause physical harm to a
family or household member.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly cause serious physical harm to a family or
household member.
   (C)   No person, by threat of force, shall knowingly cause a family or
household member to believe that the offender will cause imminent physical harm
to the family or household member.
   (D)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of domestic violence,
and the court shall sentence the offender as provided in divisions (D)(2) to
(D)(5) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3), (D)(4) or (D)(5)
of this section, a violation of division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor
of the fourth degree and a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is
a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(4) of this section, if
the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted of domestic
violence, a violation of an existing or former municipal ordinance or law of
this or any other state or the United States that is substantially equivalent
to domestic violence, a violation of R.C. § 2903.14, 2909.06, 2909.07, 2911.12,
2911.211, or 2919.22 if the victim of the violation was a family or household
member at the time of the violation, a violation of an existing or former
municipal ordinance or law of this or any other state or the United States that
is substantially equivalent to any of those sections if the victim of the
violation was a family or household member at the time of the commission of the
violation, or any offense of violence if the victim of the offense was a family
or household member at the time of the commission of the offense, a violation
of division (A) or (B) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law, and a violation of division (C) is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   If the offender previously has pleaded guilty to or been convicted
of two or more offenses of domestic violence or two or more violations or
offenses of the type described in division (D)(3) of this section involving a
person who was a family or household member at the time of the violations or
offenses, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of division (C) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (D)(3) or (D)(4) of this
section, if the offender knew that the victim of the violation was pregnant at
the time of the violation, a violation of division (A) or (B) of this section
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law, and a violation of
division (C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the third degree.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, no court or unit
of state or local government shall charge any fee, cost, deposit, or money in
connection with the filing of charges against a person alleging that the person
violated this section or a municipal ordinance substantially equivalent to this
section or in connection with the prosecution of any charges so filed.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      FAMILY OR HOUSEHOLD MEMBER. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any of the following who is residing or has resided with the
offender:
            1.   A spouse, a person living as a spouse as defined below, or a
former spouse of the offender;
            2.   A parent, a foster parent, or a child of the offender, or
another person related by consanguinity or affinity to the offender;
            3.   A parent or a child of a spouse, person living as a spouse, or
former spouse of the offender, or another person related by consanguinity or
affinity to a spouse, person living as a spouse, or former spouse of the
offender.
         (b)   The natural parent of any child of whom the offender is the
other natural parent or is the putative other natural parent.
      PERSON LIVING AS A SPOUSE. Means a person who is living or has lived with
the offender in a common law marital relationship, who otherwise is cohabiting
with the offender, or who otherwise has cohabited with the offender within five
years prior to the date of the alleged commission of the act in question.
(R.C. § 2919.25)
Cross-reference:
   Violation of protection orders, see §
135.23
Statutory reference:
   Temporary protection orders, see R.C. § 2919.26
   Violation of protection order or consent agreement, factors to consider,
bail, see R.C. § 2919.251
§ 135.17 HAZING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      HAZING. Means doing any act or coercing another, including the victim, to
do any act of initiation into any student or other organization or any act to
continue or reinstate membership in or affiliation with any student or other
organization that causes or creates a substantial risk of causing mental or
physical harm to any person, including coercing another to consume alcohol or a
drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      ORGANIZATION. Includes a national or international organization with
which a fraternity or sorority is affiliated.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall recklessly participate in the hazing of another
when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs of abuse
resulting in serious physical harm to the other person.
      (2)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other educational institution, public or private,
shall recklessly permit the hazing of any person associated with the
organization when the hazing includes coerced consumption of alcohol or drugs
of abuse resulting in serious physical harm to that person.
   (D)   Whoever violates divisions (B) or (C) of this section is guilty of
hazing. A violation of division (B)(1) or (B)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the second degree. A violation of division (C)(1) or (C)(2) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.31)
   (E)   Reckless failure to immediately report knowledge of hazing.
      (1)   No administrator, employee, faculty member, teacher, consultant,
alumnus, or volunteer of any organization, including any primary, secondary, or
post-secondary school or any other public or private educational institution,
who is acting in an official and professional capacity shall recklessly fail to
immediately report the knowledge of hazing to a law enforcement agency in the
county in which the victim of hazing resides or in which the hazing is
occurring or has occurred.
      (2)   A violation of division (E)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree, except that the violation is a misdemeanor of the first
degree if the hazing causes serious physical harm.
(R.C. § 2903.311(B), (C))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for hazing, see R.C. § 2307.44
§ 135.18 CONTRIBUTING TO UNRULINESS OR DELINQUENCY OF A CHILD.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
      UNRULY CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.022.
   (B)   No person, including a parent, guardian, or other custodian of a
child, shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Aid, abet, induce, cause, encourage, or contribute to a child or a
ward of the juvenile court becoming an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (2)   Act in a way tending to cause a child or a ward of the juvenile
court to become an unruly child or a delinquent child;
      (3)   Act in a way that contributes to an adjudication of the child as a
delinquent child based on the child’s violation of a court order adjudicating
the child an unruly child for being an habitual truant;
      (4)   If the person is the parent, guardian, or custodian of a child who
has the duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950 to register, register a new
residence address, and periodically verify a residence address, and, if
applicable, to send a notice of intent to reside, and if the child is not
emancipated, as defined in R.C. § 2919.121, fail to ensure that the child
complies with those duties under R.C. Chapters 2152 and 2950.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of contributing to the
unruliness or delinquency of a child, a misdemeanor of the first degree. Each
day of violation of this section is a separate offense.
(R.C. § 2919.24)
Statutory reference:
   Failure to send child to school, see R.C. § 3321.38
§ 135.19 FAILURE TO PROVIDE FOR A PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT.
   (A)   No caretaker shall knowingly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in physical harm
or serious physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (B)   No caretaker shall recklessly fail to provide a person with a
functional impairment under the caretaker’s care with any treatment, care,
goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of the
person with a functional impairment when this failure results in serious
physical harm to the person with a functional impairment.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
knowingly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
recklessly failing to provide for a person with a functional impairment, a
misdemeanor of the second degree. If the person with a functional impairment
under the offender’s care suffers serious physical harm as a result of the
violation of this section, a violation of division (B) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.16)
   (D)    As used in this section:
      CARETAKER. A person who assumes the duty to provide for the care and
protection of a person with a functional impairment on a voluntary basis, by
contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a result of a
family relationship, or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction. The term
does not include a person who owns, operates or administers, or who is an agent
or employee of, a care facility, as defined in R.C. § 2903.33.
      PERSON WITH A FUNCTIONAL IMPAIRMENT. Any person who has a physical or
mental impairment that prevents the person from providing for the person’s own
care or protection or whose infirmities caused by aging prevent the person from
providing for the person’s own care or protection.
(R.C. § 2903.10)
§ 135.20 PATIENT ABUSE OR NEGLECT; PATIENT ENDANGERMENT; EXCEPTIONS; FALSE
STATEMENTS; RETALIATION.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section:
      ABUSE. Means knowingly causing physical harm or recklessly causing
serious physical harm to a person by physical contact with the person or by the
inappropriate use of a physical or chemical restraint, medication or isolation
on the person.
      CARE FACILITY. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any “home” as defined in R.C. § 3721.10.
         (b)   Any “residential facility” as defined in R.C. § 5119.34 or
5123.19.
         (c)   Any institution or facility operated or provided by the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or by the Department of
Developmental Disabilities pursuant to R.C. §§ 5119.14 and 5123.03.
         (d)   Any unit of any hospital, as defined in R.C. § 3701.01, that
provided the same services as a nursing home, as defined in R.C. § 3721.01.
         (e)   Any institution, residence or facility that provides, for a
period of more than 24 hours, whether for consideration or not, accommodations
to one individual or two unrelated individuals who are dependent upon the
services of others.
      GROSS NEGLECT. Means knowingly failing to provide a person with any
treatment, care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or
safety of the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the
person.
      INAPPROPRIATE USE OF A PHYSICAL OR CHEMICAL RESTRAINT, MEDICATION OR
ISOLATION. Means the use of physical or chemical restraint, medication or
isolation as punishment, for staff convenience, excessively, as a substitute
for treatment, or in quantities that preclude habilitation and treatment.
      NEGLECT. Means recklessly failing to provide a person with any treatment,
care, goods or service that is necessary to maintain the health or safety of
the person when the failure results in serious physical harm to the person.
(R.C. § 2903.33)
   (B)   Patient abuse or neglect; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   No person who owns, operates, or administers, or who is an agent or
employee of a care facility shall do any of the following:
         (a)   Commit abuse against a resident or patient of the facility.
         (b)   Commit gross neglect against a resident or patient of the
facility.
         (c)   Commit neglect against a resident or patient of the facility.
      (2)   (a)   A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through
prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious
denomination, shall not be considered neglectful under division (B)(1)(c) of
this section for that reason alone.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of gross neglect or
neglect under this section that the actor’s conduct was committed in good faith
solely because the actor was ordered to commit the conduct by a person with
supervisory authority over the actor.
      (3)   (a)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) is guilty of patient
abuse, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(b) is guilty of gross patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has been
convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(c) is guilty of patient
neglect, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of, or pleaded guilty to, any violation of this section or a
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, gross patient
neglect is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.34)
   (C)   Patient endangerment; spiritual treatment; defense.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES CARETAKER. Means any developmental
disabilities employee or any person who assumes the duty to provide for the
care and protection of a person with a developmental disability on a voluntary
basis, by contract, through receipt of payment for care and protection, as a
result of a family relationship, or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The phrase includes a person who is an employee of a care
facility and a person who is an employee of an entity under contract with a
provider. The phrase does not include a person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility unless that
person also personally provides care to a person with a developmental
disability.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5123.50.
         DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5123.01.
      (2)   No developmental disabilities caretaker shall create a substantial
risk to the health or safety of a person with a developmental disability. A
developmental disabilities caretaker does not create a substantial risk to the
health or safety of a person with a developmental disability under this
division when the developmental disabilities caretaker treats a physical or
mental illness or disability of the person with a developmental disability by
spiritual means through prayer alone, in accordance with the tenets of a
recognized religious body.
      (3)   No person who owns, operates, or administers a care facility or who
is an agent of a care facility shall condone, or knowingly permit, any conduct
by a developmental disabilities caretaker who is employed by or under the
control of the owner, operator, administrator, or agent that is in violation of
division (C)(2) of this section and that involves a person with a developmental
disability who is under the care of the owner, operator, administrator, or
agent. A person who relies upon treatment by spiritual means through prayer
alone, in accordance with the tenets of a recognized religious denomination,
shall not be considered endangered under this division for that reason alone.
      (4)   (a)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section that the actor’s conduct was
committed in good faith solely because the actor was ordered to commit the
conduct by a person to whom one of the following applies:
            1.   The person has supervisory authority over the actor.
            2.   The person has authority over the actor’s conduct pursuant to
a contract for the provision of services.
         (b)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the person who owns, operates, or
administers a care facility or who is an agent of a care facility and who is
charged with the violation is following the individual service plan for the
involved person with a developmental disability or that the admission,
discharge, and transfer rule set forth in the Ohio Administrative Code is being
followed.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge of a violation of
division (C)(3) of this section that the actor did not have readily available a
means to prevent either the harm to the person with a developmental disability
or the death of such a person and the actor took reasonable steps to summon
aid.
      (5)   (a)   Except as provided in division (C)(5)(b) or (C)(5)(c) of this
section, whoever violates division (C)(2) or (C)(3) of this section is guilty
of patient endangerment, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
         (b)   If the offender previously has been convicted of, or pleaded
guilty to, a violation of this section, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (c)   If the violation results in serious physical harm to the person
with a developmental disability, patient endangerment is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2903.341)
   (D)   False statements.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly
swear or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, alleging a
violation of division (B) of this section when the statement is made with
purpose to incriminate another.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (D) is guilty of filing a false
patient abuse or neglect complaint, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2903.35)
   (E)   Retaliation against person reporting patient abuse or neglect. No care
facility shall discharge or in any manner discriminate or retaliate against any
person solely because such person, in good faith, filed a complaint, affidavit,
or other document alleging a violation of division (B) of this section or a
violation of R.C. § 2903.34.
(R.C. § 2903.36)
Statutory reference:
   License revocation for felony violations, see R.C. § 2903.37
§ 135.21 INTERFERENCE WITH RIGHT OF PERSON TO ENGAGE IN HOUSING TRANSACTIONS
BECAUSE OF RACE, RELIGION, OR THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person, whether or not acting under color of law, shall by force or
threat of force willfully injure, intimidate, or interfere with, or attempt to
injure, intimidate, or interfere with any of the following:
      (1)   Any person because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status,
as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin, military status as defined in
that section, disability as defined in that section, or ancestry and because
that person is or has been selling, purchasing, renting, financing, occupying,
contracting, or negotiating for the sale, purchase, rental, financing, or
occupation of any housing accommodations, or applying for or participating in
any service, organization, or facility relating to the business of selling or
renting housing accommodations.
      (2)   Any person because that person is or has been doing, or in order to
intimidate that person or any other person or any class of persons from doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status, as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section;
         (b)   Affording another person or class of persons opportunity or
protection so to participate.
      (3)   Any person because that person is or has been, or in order to
discourage that person or any other person from, lawfully aiding or encouraging
other persons to participate, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, sex, familial status as defined in R.C. § 4112.01, national origin,
military status as defined in that section, disability as defined in that
section, or ancestry, in any of the activities, services, organizations, or
facilities described in division (A)(1) of this section, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceful assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
to so participate.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2927.03)
§ 135.22 ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall violate R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.22, 2909.06, or 2909.07,
or R.C. § 2917.21(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5), by reason of the race, color,
religion, or national origin of another person or group of persons.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of ethnic intimidation. Ethnic
intimidation is an offense of the next higher degree than the offense the
commission of which is a necessary element of ethnic intimidation. In the case
of an offense that is a misdemeanor of the first degree, ethnic intimidation is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.12)
§ 135.23 VIOLATING A PROTECTION ORDER, CONSENT AGREEMENT, ANTI-TALKING
PROTECTION ORDER OR ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER STATE.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly violate the terms of any of the following:
      (1)   A protection order issued or consent agreement approved pursuant to
R.C. § 2919.26 or R.C. § 3113.31;
      (2)   A protection order issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213 or
2903.214;
      (3)   A protection order issued by a court of another state.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of violating a
protection order.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B)(3) or (B)(4) of this
section, violating a protection order is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (3)   Violating a protection order is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the offender previously has been convicted of, pleaded
guilty to, or been adjudicated a delinquent child for any of the following:
         (a)   A violation of a protection order issued or consent agreement
approved pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34, 2903.213, 2903.214, 2919.26, or 3113.31,
or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance;
         (b)   Two or more violations of R.C. § 2903.21, 2903.211, 2903.22, or
2911.211, or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or
any combination of those offenses, that involved the same person who is the
subject of the protection order or consent agreement;
         (c)   One or more violations of this section, or any substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance.
      (4)   If the offender violates a protection order or consent agreement
while committing a felony offense, violating a protection order is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the protection order violated by the offender was an order
issued pursuant to R.C. § 2151.34 or 2903.214 that required electronic
monitoring of the offender pursuant to that section, the court may require in
addition to any other sentence imposed upon the offender that the offender be
electronically monitored for a period not exceeding five years by a law
enforcement agency designated by the court. If the court requires under this
division that the offender be electronically monitored, unless the court
determines that the offender is indigent, the court shall order that the
offender pay the costs of the installation of the electronic monitoring device
and the cost of monitoring the electronic monitoring device.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(3) of this
section that the protection order issued by a court of another state does not
comply with the requirements specified in 18 U.S.C. § 2265(b) for a protection
order that must be accorded full faith and credit by a court of this state or
that it is not entitled to full faith and credit under 18 U.S.C. § 2265(c).
   (D)   In a prosecution for a violation of this section, it is not necessary
for the prosecution to prove that the protection order or consent agreement was
served on the defendant if the prosecution proves that the defendant was shown
the protection order or consent agreement or a copy of either or a judge,
magistrate, or law enforcement officer informed the defendant that a protection
order or consent agreement had been issued, and proves that the defendant
recklessly violated the terms of the order or agreement.
   (E)   As used in this section, PROTECTION ORDER ISSUED BY A COURT OF ANOTHER
STATE means an injunction or another order issued by a criminal court of
another state for the purpose of preventing violent or threatening acts or
harassment against, contact or communication with, or physical proximity to
another person including a temporary order, and means an injunction or order of
that nature issued by a civil court of another state, including a temporary
order and a final order issued in an independent action or as a pendente lite
order in a proceeding for other relief, if the court issued it in response to a
complaint, petition or motion filed by or on behalf of a person seeking
protection. The term does not include an order for support or for custody of a
child issued pursuant to the divorce and child custody laws of another state,
except to the extent that the order for support or for custody of a child is
entitled to full faith and credit under the laws of the United States.
(R.C. § 2919.27)
Cross-reference:
   Jurisdictional limitation on Mayor regarding violations of this section, see
§
33.01(E)
§ 135.24 ADULTERATION OF FOOD.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following, knowing or having
reasonable cause to believe that any person may suffer physical harm or be
seriously inconvenienced or annoyed thereby:
      (1)   Place a pin, razor blade, glass, laxative, drug of abuse, or other
harmful or hazardous object or substance in any food or confection.
      (2)   Furnish to any person any food or confection which has been
adulterated in violation of division (A)(1) of this section.
(R.C. § 3716.11)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 3716.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Adulteration of food generally, see R.C. § 3715.59
§ 135.25 ILLEGAL DISTRIBUTION OF CIGARETTES, OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, OR
ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCTS; TRANSACTION SCANS.
   (A)   Illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products.
      (1)   As used in this section:
         AGE VERIFICATION. A service provided by an independent third party
(other than a manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes) that compares information available from a
commercially available database, or aggregate of databases, that regularly are
used by government and businesses for the purpose of age and identity
verification to personal information provided during an internet sale or other
remote method of sale to establish that the purchaser is 21 years of age or
older.
         ALTERNATIVE NICOTINE PRODUCT.
            1.   Subject to division 2. of this definition, an electronic
smoking device, vapor product, or any other product or device that consists of
or contains nicotine that can be ingested into the body by any means,
including, but not limited to, chewing, smoking, absorbing, dissolving, or
inhaling.
            2.   The phrase does not include any of the following:
               a.   Any cigarette or other tobacco product;
               b.   Any product that is a “drug” as that term is defined in 21
U.S.C. § 321(g)(1);
               c.   Any product that is a “device” as that term is defined in
21 U.S.C. § 321(h);
               d.   Any product that is a “combination product” as described in
21 U.S.C. § 353(g).
         CIGARETTE. Includes clove cigarettes and hand-rolled cigarettes.
         DISTRIBUTE. Means to furnish, give, or provide cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to the ultimate consumer of the cigarettes, other tobacco products,
alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes.
         ELECTRONIC SMOKING DEVICE. Means any device that can be used to
deliver aerosolized or vaporized nicotine or any other substance to the person
inhaling from the device including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar,
electronic hookah, vaping pen, or electronic pipe. The phrase includes any
component, part, or accessory of such a device, whether or not sold separately,
and includes any substance intended to be aerosolized or vaporized during the
use of the device. The phrase does not include any product that is a drug,
device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described in 21
U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         PROOF OF AGE. Means a driver's license, a commercial driver's license,
a military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows that a person is 21 years of age or
older.
         TOBACCO PRODUCT. Means any product that is made or derived from
tobacco or that contains any form of nicotine, if it is intended for human
consumption or is likely to be consumed, whether smoked, heated, chewed,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, or ingested by any other means, including, but
not limited to, a cigarette, an electronic smoking device, a cigar, pipe
tobacco, chewing tobacco, snuff, or snus. The phrase also means any component
or accessory used in the consumption of a tobacco product, such as filters,
rolling papers, pipes, blunt or hemp wraps, and liquids used in electronic
smoking devices, whether or not they contain nicotine. The phrase does not
include any product that is a drug, device, or combination product, as those
terms are defined or described in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g).
         VAPOR PRODUCT. Means a product, other than a cigarette or other
tobacco product as defined in R.C. Chapter 5743, that contains or is made or
derived from nicotine and that is intended and marketed for human consumption,
including by smoking, inhaling, snorting, or sniffing. The phrase includes any
component, part, or additive that is intended for use in an electronic smoking
device, a mechanical heating element, battery, or electronic circuit and is
used to deliver the product. The phrase does not include any product that is a
drug, device, or combination product, as those terms are defined or described
in 21 U.S.C. §§ 321 and 353(g). The phrase includes any product containing
nicotine, regardless of concentration.
         VENDING MACHINE. Has the same meaning as “coin machine” in R.C. §
2913.01.
      (2)   No manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers
used to roll cigarettes, no agent, employee, or representative of a
manufacturer, producer, distributor, wholesaler, or retailer of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes, and no other person shall do any of the following:
         (a)    Give, sell, or otherwise distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes:
            1.   To any person under 21 years of age; or
            2.   Without first verifying proof of age.
         (b)   Give away, sell, or distribute cigarettes, other tobacco
products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll cigarettes in
any place that does not have posted in a conspicuous place a legibly printed
sign in letters at least one-half inch high stating that giving, selling, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age
is prohibited by law;
         (c)   Knowingly furnish any false information regarding the name, age,
or other identification of any person under 21 years of age with purpose to
obtain cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or
papers used to roll cigarettes for that person;
         (d)   Manufacture, sell, or distribute in this state any pack or other
container of cigarettes containing fewer than 20 cigarettes or any package of
roll-your-own tobacco containing less than six-tenths of one ounce of tobacco;
         (e)   Sell cigarettes or alternative nicotine products in a smaller
quantity than that placed in the pack or other container by the manufacturer;
         (f)    Give, sell, or otherwise distribute alternative nicotine
products, papers used to roll cigarettes, or tobacco products other than
cigarettes over the internet or through another remote method without age
verification;
         (g)   Allow an employee under 18 years of age to sell any tobacco
product;
         (h)   Give away or otherwise distribute free samples of cigarettes,
other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or coupons redeemable
for cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alterative tobacco products.
      (3)   No person shall sell or offer to sell cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products by or from a vending machine, except
in the following locations:
         (a)   An area within a factory, business, office, or other place not
open to the general public;
         (b)   An area to which persons under 21 years of age are not generally
permitted access;
         (c)   Any other place not identified in division (A)(3)(a) or (A)(3)
(b) of this section, upon all of the following conditions:
            1.   The vending machine is located within the immediate vicinity,
plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place, or an
employee of that person, so that all cigarettes, other tobacco product, and
alternative nicotine product purchases from the vending machine will be readily
observed by the person who owns or operates the place or an employee of that
person. For the purpose of this section, a vending machine located in any
unmonitored area, including an unmonitored coatroom, restroom, hallway, or
outer waiting area, shall not be considered located within the immediate
vicinity, plain view, and control of the person who owns or operates the place,
or an employee of that person.
            2.   The vending machine is inaccessible to the public when the
place is closed.
            3.   A clearly visible notice is posted in the area where the
vending machine is located that states the following in letters that are
legibly printed and at least one-half inch high: “It is illegal for any person
under the age of 21 to purchase tobacco or alternative nicotine products.”
      (4)   The following are affirmative defenses to a charge under division
(A)(2)(a) of this section:
         (a)   The person under 21 years of age was accompanied by a parent,
spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian of the person under
21 years of age.
         (b)   The person who gave, sold, or distributed cigarettes, other
tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or papers used to roll
cigarettes to a person under 21 years of age under division (A)(2)(a) of this
section is a parent, spouse who is 21 years of age or older, or legal guardian
of the person under 21 years of age.
      (5)   (a)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of
this section for a person to give or otherwise distribute to a person under 21
years of age cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine products,
or papers used to roll cigarettes while the person under 21 years of age is
participating in a research protocol if all of the following apply:
            1.   The parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the person under
21 years of age has consented in writing to the person under 21 years of age
participating in the research protocol.
            2.   An institutional human subjects protection review board, or an
equivalent entity, has approved the research protocol.
            3.   The person under 21 years of age is participating in the
research protocol at the facility or location specified in the research
protocol.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section for an employer to permit an employee 18, 19, or 20 years of age to
sell a tobacco product.
      (6)   (a)   No delivery service shall accept from, transport or deliver
to, or allow pick-up by, a person under 21 years of age with respect to any of
the following:
            1.   Alternative nicotine products;
            2.   Papers used to roll cigarettes;
            3.   Tobacco products other than cigarettes.
         (b)   A delivery service shall require proof of age as a condition of
accepting, transporting, delivering, or allowing pickup of the items described
in divisions (A)(6)(a)1. to 3. of this section.
      (7)    Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a), (A)(2)(b), (A)(2)(d), (A)(2)
(e), (A)(2)(f), (A)(2)(g), (A)(2)(h), (A)(3) or (A)(6) of this section is
guilty of illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
illegal distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to illegal distribution of
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(c) of this section is guilty of
permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of division (A)(2)(c) of this section or a substantially equivalent state law
or municipal ordinance, permitting a person under 21 years of age to use
cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products is a
misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (9)   Any cigarettes, other tobacco products, alternative nicotine
products, or papers used to roll cigarettes that are given, sold, or otherwise
distributed to a person under 21 years of age in violation of this section and
that are used, possessed, purchased, or received by a person under 21 years of
age in violation of R.C. § 2151.87 are subject to seizure and forfeiture as
contraband under R.C. Chapter 2981.
(R.C. § 2927.02)
   (B)   Transaction scan.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (C) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products from a seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification card issued under R.C. §§
4507.50 through 4507.52.
         SELLER. Means a seller of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or
alternative nicotine products and includes any person whose gift of or other
distribution of cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products is subject to the prohibitions of division (A) of this section.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks, by means of a transaction scan device, the
validity of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card
that is presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Means any commercial device or combination of
devices used at a point of sale that is capable of deciphering in an
electronically readable format the information encoded on the magnetic strip or
bar code of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification
card.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (B)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or identification card, if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device, as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative
nicotine products to the person presenting the document.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (B) and division (C) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except for the following:
            1.   The name and date of birth of the person listed on the
driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the
card holder;
            2.   The expiration date and identification number of the driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by the card
holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (B)(4)(a) of this section, except for
purposes of division (C) of this section.
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (C) of this section
or another section of this code or the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (B) or division (C) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable local, state or federal laws or rules
governing the sale, giving away, or other distribution of cigarettes, other
tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(b) or (B)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal tobacco product or alternative nicotine
product transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil
penalty of up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay
each collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the
County Treasury.
(R.C. § 2927.021)
   (C)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (A) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of cigarettes, other tobacco products,
or alternative nicotine products is an element of the alleged violation, if the
seller, agent, or employee raises and proves as an affirmative defense that all
of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive cigarettes,
other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine products presented a driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The cigarettes, other tobacco products, or alternative nicotine
products were sold, given away, or otherwise distributed to the card holder in
reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and the completed
transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (C)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (A) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (A) of this
section. For purposes of division (C)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes cigarettes, other tobacco
products, or alternative nicotine products is 21 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (C)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2927.022)
   (D)   Shipment of tobacco products.
      (1)   As used in this division (D):
         AUTHORIZED RECIPIENT OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Means:
            1.   In the case of cigarettes, a person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a cigarette wholesale dealer under R.C. §
5743.15;
               b.   Licensed as a retail dealer as long as the person purchases
cigarettes with the appropriate tax stamp affixed;
               c.   An export warehouse proprietor as defined in Internal
Revenue Code § 5702;
               d.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               e.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               f.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state;
               g.   A person having a consent for consumer shipment issued by
the Ohio Tax Commissioner under R.C. § 5743.71.
            2.   In the case of electronic smoking devices or vapor products, a
person who is:
               a.   Licensed as a distributor of tobacco or vapor products
under R.C. § 5743.61;
               b.   A retail dealer of vapor products, as defined in R.C. §
5741.01(C)(3), that is not licensed as a vapor distributor, as long as the tax
levied by R.C. § 5743.51, 5743.62, or 5743.63, as applicable, has been paid;
               c.   An operator of a customs bonded warehouse under 19 U.S.C. §
1311 or 19 U.S.C. § 1555;
               d.   An officer, employee, or agent of the federal government or
of this state acting in the person's official capacity;
               e.   A department, agency, instrumentality, or political
subdivision of the federal government or of this state.
         MOTOR CARRIER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4923.01.
      (2)   The purpose of this section is to prevent the sale of cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to minors and to ensure
compliance with the Master Settlement Agreement, as defined in R.C. § 1346.01.
      (3)   (a)   No person shall cause to be shipped any cigarettes,
electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in this
municipality other than an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
         (b)   No motor carrier, or other person shall knowingly transport
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality that the carrier or other person reasonably believes is not
an authorized recipient of tobacco products. If cigarettes, electronic smoking
devices, and vapor products are transported to a home or residence, it shall be
presumed that the motor carrier, or other person knew that the person to whom
the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products were delivered
was not an authorized recipient of tobacco products.
      (4)   No person engaged in the business of selling cigarettes, electronic
smoking devices, and vapor products who ships or causes to be shipped
cigarettes, electronic smoking devices, and vapor products to any person in
this municipality in any container or wrapping other than the original
container or wrapping shall fail to plainly and visibly mark the exterior of
the container or wrapping in which the cigarettes, electronic smoking devices,
and vapor products are shipped with the words "cigarettes", "electronic smoking
devices", or "vapor products", as applicable.
      (5)   A court shall impose a fine of up to $1,000 for each violation of
division (D)(3)(a), (D)(3)(b) or (D)(4) of this section.
(R.C. § 2927.023)
   (E)   Furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products.
      (1)   No person who is 18 years of age or older but younger than 21 years
of age shall knowingly furnish false information concerning that person’s name,
age, or other identification for the purpose of obtaining tobacco products.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (E)(1) of this section is guilty of
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products. Except as otherwise
provided in this division, furnishing false information to obtain tobacco
products is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) of this
section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
furnishing false information to obtain tobacco products is a misdemeanor of the
third degree.
(R.C. § 2927.024)
§ 135.26 NONSMOKING AREAS IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PLACE OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY means:
      (1)   Enclosed theaters, except the lobby; opera houses; auditoriums;
classrooms; elevators; rooms in which persons are confined as a matter of
health care, including but not limited to a hospital room and a room in a
residential care facility serving as the residence of a person living in such
residential care facility.
      (2)   All buildings and other enclosed structures owned by the state, its
agencies or political subdivisions, including, but not limited to, hospitals
and state institutions for persons with mental illnesses and persons with
intellectual disabilities; university and college buildings, except rooms
within those buildings used primarily as the residences of students or other
persons affiliated with the university or college; office buildings; libraries;
museums; and vehicles used in public transportation. That portion of a building
or other enclosed structure that is owned by the state, a state agency or a
political subdivision, and that is used primarily as a food service
establishment, is not a place of public assembly.
      (3)   Each portion of a building or enclosed structure that is not
included in division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a place of public
assembly if it has a seating capacity of 50 or more persons and is available to
the public. Restaurants, food service establishments, dining rooms, cafes,
cafeterias, or other rooms used primarily for the service of food, as well as
bowling alleys and places licensed by the Ohio Division of Liquor Control to
sell intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, are not places of
public assembly.
   (B)   For the purpose of separating persons who smoke from persons who do
not smoke for the comfort and health of persons not smoking, in every place of
public assembly there shall be an area where smoking is not permitted, which
shall be designated a no smoking area, provided that not more than one-half of
the rooms in any health care facility in which persons are confined as a matter
of health care may be designated as smoking areas in their entirety. The
designation shall be made before the place of public assembly is made available
to the public. In places included in division (A)(1) of this section, the local
fire authority having jurisdiction shall designate the no smoking area. In
places included in division (A)(2) of this section that are owned by the state
or its agencies, the Ohio Director of Administrative Services shall designate
the area, and if the place is owned by a political subdivision, its Legislative
Authority shall designate an officer who shall designate the area. In places
included in division (A)(3) of this section, the person having control of the
operations of the place of public assembly shall designate the no smoking area.
In places included in division (A)(2) of this section which are also included
in division (A)(1) of this section, the officer who has authority to designate
the area in places in division (A)(2) of this section shall designate the no
smoking area. A no smoking area may include the entire place of public
assembly. Designations shall be made by the placement of signs that are clearly
visible and that state “no smoking”. No person shall remove signs from areas
designated as no smoking areas.
   (C)   This section does not affect or modify the prohibition contained in
R.C. § 3313.751(B).
   (D)   No person shall smoke in any area designated as a no smoking area in
accordance with division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 3791.031)
§ 135.27 SPREADING CONTAGION.
   (A)   No person, knowing or having reasonable cause to believe that the
person has a dangerous, contagious disease, shall knowingly fail to take
reasonable measures to prevent exposing self to other persons, except when
seeking medical aid.
   (B)   No person, having charge or care of a person whom the person having
charge or care knows or has reasonable cause to believe has a dangerous,
contagious disease, shall recklessly fail to take reasonable measures to
protect others from exposure to the contagion, and to inform health authorities
of the existence of the contagion.
   (C)   No person, having charge of a public conveyance or place of public
accommodation, amusement, resort, or trade, and knowing or having reasonable
cause to believe that persons using such conveyance or place have been or are
being exposed to a dangerous, contagious disease, shall negligently fail to
take reasonable measures to protect the public from exposure to the contagion,
and to inform health authorities of the existence of the contagion.
(R.C. § 3701.81)
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second
degree.
(R.C. § 3701.99(C))
Statutory reference:
   Contagion and quarantine, see R.C. §§ 3707.04 et seq.
   Power to prevent contagious diseases, see R.C. § 715.37
§ 135.28 ABUSE OF A CORPSE.
   (A)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that he or she knows would outrage reasonable family sensibilities.
   (B)   No person, except as authorized by law, shall treat a human corpse in
a way that would outrage reasonable community sensibilities.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of abuse of a
corpse, a misdemeanor of the second degree. Whoever violates division (B) of
this section is guilty of gross abuse of a corpse, a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2927.01)
CHAPTER 136: OFFENSES AGAINST JUSTICE AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
136.01   Definitions
   
136.02   Falsification
   
136.03   Compounding a crime
   
136.04   Failure to report a crime
   
136.05   Failure to aid a law enforcement officer
   
136.06   Obstructing official business
   
136.07   Obstructing justice
   
136.08   Resisting arrest
   
136.09   Having an unlawful interest in a public contract
   
136.10   Soliciting or receiving improper compensation
   
136.11   Dereliction of duty
   
136.12   Interfering with civil rights
   
136.13   Illegal conveyance of prohibited items onto grounds of a detention
facility or other specified governmental facilities
   
136.14   False report of child abuse or neglect
   
136.15   Assaulting police dog or horse, or assistance dog
   
136.16   Disclosure of confidential peace officer information
   
136.17   Intimidation of crime victim or witness
   
136.18   Using sham legal process
   
136.19   Making false allegation of peace officer misconduct
   
136.20   Misuse of 9-1-1 system
   
136.21   Failure to disclose personal information
Cross-reference:
   Failure to comply with order or signal of a police officer, see §
70.02
Statutory reference:
   Escape from detention, see R.C. § 2921.34
   Harassment by inmates by causing or attempting to cause contact with blood,
semen, urine, feces or other bodily substance; knowledge of AIDS, hepatitis or
tuberculosis infection; felony offenses, see R.C. § 2921.38
§ 136.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   CONTRIBUTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   DETENTION. Arrest; confinement in any vehicle subsequent to an arrest;
confinement in any public or private facility for custody of persons charged
with or convicted of crime in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent child or unruly child
in this state or another state or under the laws of the United States;
hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in any public or private
facility that is ordered pursuant to or under the authority of R.C. § 2945.37,
2945.371, 2945.38, 2945.39, 2945.40, 2945.401 or 2945.402; confinement in any
vehicle for transportation to or from any facility of any of those natures;
detention for extradition or deportation; except as provided in this division,
supervision by any employee of any facility of any of those natures that is
incidental to hospitalization, institutionalization, or confinement in the
facility but that occurs outside the facility; supervision by an employee of
the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction of a person on any type of
release from a state correctional institution; or confinement in any vehicle,
airplane, or place while being returned from outside of this state into this
state by a private person or entity pursuant to a contract entered into under
R.C. § 311.29(E) or R.C. § 5149.03(B). For a person confined in a county jail
who participates in a county jail industry program pursuant to R.C. § 5147.30,
the term includes time spent at an assigned work site and going to and from the
work site.
   DETENTION FACILITY. Any public or private place used for the confinement of
a person charged with or convicted of any crime in this state or another state
or under the laws of the United States or alleged or found to be a delinquent
child or an unruly child in this state or another state or under the laws of
the United States.
   LEGISLATIVE CAMPAIGN FUND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   OFFICIAL PROCEEDING. Any proceeding before a legislative, judicial,
administrative, or other governmental agency or official authorized to take
evidence under oath, and includes any proceeding before a referee, hearing
examiner, commissioner, notary, or other person taking testimony or a
deposition in connection with an official proceeding.
   PARTY OFFICIAL. Any person who holds an elective or appointive post in a
political party in the United States or this state, by virtue of which he or
she directs, conducts, or participates in directing or conducting party affairs
at any level of responsibility.
   POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL CONTRIBUTING ENTITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   POLITICAL PARTY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3517.01.
   PROVIDER AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5164.01.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Any elected or appointed officer, employee, or agent of the
state or any political subdivision thereof, whether in a temporary or permanent
capacity, and includes but is not limited to legislators, judges, and law
enforcement officers. The term does not include an employee, officer, or
governor-appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit
corporation formed under R.C. § 187.01.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any public official.
         (b)   Any person performing ad hoc a governmental function, including
but not limited to a juror, member of a temporary commission, master,
arbitrator, advisor, or consultant.
         (c)   A person who is a candidate for public office, whether or not he
or she is elected or appointed to the office for which he or she is a
candidate. A person is a candidate for purposes of this division if he or she
has been nominated according to law for election or appointment to public
office, or if he or she has filed a petition or petitions as required by law to
have his or her name placed on the ballot in a primary, general, or special
election, or if he or she campaigns as a write-in candidate in any primary,
general, or special election.
      (2)   The term does not include an employee, officer, or governor-
appointed member of the board of directors of the nonprofit corporation formed
under R.C. § 187.01.
   VALUABLE THING or VALUABLE BENEFIT. Includes but is not limited to a
contribution. This inclusion does not indicate or imply that a contribution was
not included in those terms before September 17, 1986.
(R.C. § 2921.01)
§ 136.02 FALSIFICATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement, or knowingly swear
or affirm the truth of a false statement previously made, when any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The statement is made in any official proceeding.
      (2)   The statement is made with purpose to incriminate another.
      (3)   The statement is made with purpose to mislead a public official in
performing his or her official function.
      (4)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the payment of
unemployment compensation; Ohio Works First; prevention, retention and
contingency benefits and services; disability financial assistance; retirement
benefits or health care coverage from a state retirement system; economic
development assistance as defined in R.C. § 9.66; or other benefits
administered by a governmental agency or paid out of a public treasury.
      (5)   The statement is made with purpose to secure the issuance by a
governmental agency of a license, permit, authorization, certificate,
registration, release, or provider agreement.
      (6)   The statement is sworn or affirmed before a notary public or
another person empowered to administer oaths.
      (7)   The statement is in writing on or in connection with a report or
return that is required or authorized by law.
      (8)   The statement is in writing, and is made with purpose to induce
another to extend credit to or employ the offender, or to confer any degree,
diploma, certificate of attainment, award of excellence, or honor on the
offender, or to extend to or bestow upon the offender any other valuable
benefit or distinction, when the person to whom the statement is directed
relies upon it to his or her detriment.
      (9)   The statement is made with purpose to commit or facilitate the
commission of a theft offense.
      (10)   The statement is knowingly made to a probate court in connection
with any action, proceeding, or other matter within its jurisdiction, either
orally or in a written document, including but not limited to an application,
petition, complaint, or other pleading, or an inventory, account, or report.
      (11)   The statement is made on an account, form, record, stamp, label or
other writing that is required by law.
      (12)   The statement is made in connection with the purchase of a
firearm, as defined in R.C. § 2923.11, and in conjunction with the furnishing
to the seller of the firearm of a fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit, a fictitious or altered identification card, or any
other document that contains false information about the purchaser’s identity.
      (13)   The statement is made in a document or instrument of writing that
purports to be a judgment, lien, or claim of indebtedness and is filed or
recorded with the Secretary of State, a county recorder, or the clerk of a
court of record.
      (14)   The statement is made in an application filed with a county
sheriff pursuant to R.C. § 2923.125 in order to obtain or renew a concealed
handgun license or is made in an affidavit submitted to a county sheriff to
obtain a concealed handgun license on a temporary emergency basis under R.C. §
2923.1213.
      (15)   The statement is required under R.C. § 5743.71 in connection with
the person’s purchase of cigarettes or tobacco products in a delivery sale.
   (B)   No person, in connection with the purchase of a firearm as defined in
R.C. § 2923.11, shall knowingly furnish to the seller of the firearm a
fictitious or altered driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit, a
fictitious or altered identification card, or any other document that contains
false information about the purchaser’s identity.
   (C)   No person, in an attempt to obtain a concealed handgun license under
R.C. § 2923.125, shall knowingly present to a sheriff a fictitious or altered
document that purports to be certification of the person’s competence in
handling a handgun as described in division (B)(3) of that section.
   (D)   It is no defense to a charge under division (A)(6) of this section
that the oath or affirmation was administered or taken in an irregular manner.
   (E)   If contradictory statements relating to the same fact are made by the
offender within the period of the statute of limitations for falsification, it
is not necessary for the prosecution to prove which statement was false, but
only that one or the other was false.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), (A)
(5), (A)(6), (A)(7), (A)(8), (A)(10), (A)(11), (A)(13) or (A)(15) of this
section is guilty of falsification. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(9) of this section is guilty of
falsification in a theft offense. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, falsification in a theft offense is a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the value of the property or services stolen is $1,000 or more,
falsification in a theft offense is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(12) or (B) of this section is guilty
of falsification to purchase a firearm, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (A)(14) or (C) of this section is guilty
of falsification to obtain a concealed handgun license, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section in removal
proceedings under R.C. § 319.26, 321.37, 507.13 or 733.78 is guilty of
falsification regarding a removal proceeding, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.13)
   (G)   (1)   No person who has knowingly failed to maintain proof of
financial responsibility in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101 shall produce any
document or present to a peace officer an electronic wireless communications
device that is displaying any text or images with the purpose to mislead a
peace officer upon the request of a peace officer for proof of financial
responsibility made in accordance with R.C. § 4509.101(D)(2).
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (G) is guilty of falsification, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 4509.102)
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability for violations of this section, see R.C. § 2921.13(G)
§ 136.03 COMPOUNDING A CRIME.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly demand, accept, or agree to accept anything
of value in consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon a pending
criminal prosecution.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this section when both
of the following apply:
      (1)   The pending prosecution involved is for a violation of R.C. §
2913.02, 2913.11, 2913.21(B)(2), or 2913.47, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, of which the actor under this section was the victim.
      (2)   The thing of value demanded, accepted, or agreed to be accepted, in
consideration of abandoning or agreeing to abandon the prosecution, did not
exceed an amount that the actor reasonably believed due him or her as
restitution for the loss caused him or her by the offense.
   (C)   When a prosecuting witness abandons or agrees to abandon a prosecution
under division (B) of this section, the abandonment or agreement in no way
binds the state to abandoning the prosecution.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of compounding a crime, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.21)
§ 136.04 FAILURE TO REPORT A CRIME.
   (A)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) of this section, no
person, knowing that a felony has been or is being committed, shall knowingly
fail to report the information to law enforcement authorities.
      (2)   No person, knowing that a violation of R.C. § 2913.04(B) has been
or is being committed or that the person has received information derived from
such a violation, shall knowingly fail to report the violation to law
enforcement authorities.
   (B)   Except for conditions that are within the scope of division (E) of
this section, no person giving aid to a sick or injured person shall
negligently fail to report to law enforcement authorities any gunshot or stab
wound treated or observed by the person, or any serious physical harm to
persons that the person knows or has reasonable cause to believe resulted from
an offense of violence.
   (C)   No person who discovers the body or acquires the first knowledge of
the death of a person shall fail to report the death immediately to a physician
or advanced practice registered nurse whom the person knows to be treating the
deceased for a condition from which death at such time would not be unexpected,
or to a law enforcement officer, an ambulance service, an emergency squad, or
the coroner in a political subdivision in which the body is discovered, the
death is believed to have occurred, or knowledge concerning the death is
obtained. For purposes of this division, “advanced practice registered nurse”
does not include a certified registered nurse anesthetist.
   (D)   No person shall fail to provide upon request of the person to whom a
report required by division (C) of this section was made, or to any law
enforcement officer who has reasonable cause to assert the authority to
investigate the circumstances surrounding the death, any facts within his or
her knowledge that may have a bearing on the investigation of the death.
   (E)   (1)   As used in this section, BURN INJURY means any of the following:
         (a)   Second or third degree burns;
         (b)   Any burns to the upper respiratory tract or laryngeal edema due
to the inhalation of super-heated air;
         (c)   Any burn injury or wound that may result in death;
         (d)   Any physical harm to persons caused by or as the result of the
use of fireworks, novelties and trick noisemakers, and wire sparklers, as each
is defined by R.C. § 3743.01.
      (2)   No physician, nurse, physician assistant, or limited practitioner
who, outside a hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility, attends or
treats a person who has sustained a burn injury inflicted by an explosion or
other incendiary device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a
violent, malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury
immediately to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the
jurisdiction in which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local
law enforcement authorities.
      (3)   No manager, superintendent, or other person in charge of a
hospital, sanitarium, or other medical facility in which a person is attended
or treated for any burn injury inflicted by an explosion or other incendiary
device, or that shows evidence of having been inflicted in a violent,
malicious, or criminal manner, shall fail to report the burn injury immediately
to the local arson bureau, if there is such a bureau in the jurisdiction in
which the person is attended or treated, or otherwise to local law enforcement
authorities.
      (4)   No person who is required to report any burn injury under division
(E)(2) or (E)(3) of this section shall fail to file, within three working days
after attending or treating the victim, a written report of the burn injury
with the office of the State Fire Marshal. The report shall be made on a form
provided by the State Fire Marshal.
      (5)   Anyone participating in the making of reports under division (E) of
this section or anyone participating in a judicial proceeding resulting from
the reports is immune from any civil or criminal liability that otherwise might
be incurred or imposed as a result of such actions. Notwithstanding R.C. §
4731.22, the physician-patient relationship or advanced practice registered
nurse-patient relationship is not a ground for excluding evidence regarding a
person’s burn injury or the cause of the burn injury in any judicial proceeding
resulting from a report submitted under division (E) of this section.
   (F)   (1)   Any doctor of medicine or osteopathic medicine, hospital intern
or resident, nurse, psychologist, social worker, independent social worker,
social work assistant, licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed
professional counselor, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage
and family therapist who knows or has reasonable cause to believe that a
patient or client has been the victim of domestic violence, as defined in R.C.
§ 3113.31, shall note that knowledge or belief and the basis for it in the
patient’s or client’s records.
      (2)   Notwithstanding R.C. § 4731.22, the physician-patient privilege or
advanced practice registered nurse-patient privilege shall not be a ground for
excluding any information regarding the report containing the knowledge or
belief noted under division (F)(1) of this section, and the information may be
admitted as evidence in accordance with the Rules of Evidence.
   (G)   Division (A) or (D) of this section does not require disclosure of
information, when any of the following applies:
      (1)   The information is privileged by reason of the relationship between
attorney and client; physician and patient; advanced practice registered nurse
and patient; licensed psychologist or licensed school psychologist and client;
licensed professional clinical counselor, licensed professional counselor,
independent social worker, social worker, independent marriage and family
therapist, or marriage and family therapist and client; member of the clergy,
rabbi, minister, or priest and any person communicating information
confidentially to the member of the clergy, rabbi, minister, or priest for a
religious counseling purpose of a professional character; husband and wife; or
a communications assistant and those who are a party to a telecommunications
relay service call.
      (2)   The information would tend to incriminate a member of the actor’s
immediate family.
      (3)   Disclosure of the information would amount to revealing a news
source, privileged under R.C. § 2739.04 or 2739.12.
      (4)   Disclosure of the information would amount to disclosure by a
member of the ordained clergy of an organized religious body of a confidential
communication made to that member of the clergy in that member’s capacity as a
member of the clergy by a person seeking the aid or counsel of that member of
the clergy.
      (5)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program of treatment or services for persons with drug dependencies or persons
in danger of drug dependence, which program is maintained or conducted by a
hospital, clinic, person, agency or community addiction services provider whose
alcohol and drug addiction services are certified pursuant to R.C. § 5119.36.
      (6)   Disclosure would amount to revealing information acquired by the
actor in the course of the actor’s duties in connection with a bona fide
program for providing counseling services to victims of crimes that are
violations of R.C. § 2907.02 or R.C. § 2907.05 or to victims of felonious
sexual penetration in violation of former R.C. § 2907.12. As used in this
division, “counseling services” include services provided in an informal
setting by a person who, by education or experience, is competent to provide
those services.
   (H)   No disclosure of information pursuant to this section gives rise to
any liability or recrimination for a breach of privilege or confidence.
   (I)   Whoever violates division (A) or (B) of this section is guilty of
failure to report a crime. Violation of division (A)(1) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. Violation of division (A)(2) or (B) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (J)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of
failure to report knowledge of a death, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (K)   (1)   Whoever negligently violates division (E) of this section is
guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (2)   Whoever knowingly violates division (E) of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (L)   As used in this section, NURSE includes an advanced practice
registered nurse, registered nurse, and licensed practical nurse.
(R.C. § 2921.22)
§ 136.05 FAILURE TO AID A LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   No person shall negligently fail or refuse to aid a law enforcement
officer, when called upon for assistance in preventing or halting the
commission of an offense, or in apprehending or detaining an offender, when the
aid can be given without a substantial risk of physical harm to the person
giving it.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to aid a law
enforcement officer, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2921.23)
§ 136.06 OBSTRUCTING OFFICIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person, without privilege to do so and with purpose to prevent,
obstruct, or delay the performance by a public official of any authorized act
within the public official’s official capacity, shall do any act that hampers
or impedes a public official in the performance of the public official’s lawful
duties.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing official
business. Except as otherwise provided in this division, obstructing official
business is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If a violation of this section
creates a risk of physical harm to any person, obstructing official business is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.31)
§ 136.07 OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
   (A)   No person, with purpose to hinder the discovery, apprehension,
prosecution, conviction, or punishment of another for crime, or to assist
another to benefit from the commission of a crime, and no person, with purpose
to hinder the discovery, apprehension, prosecution, adjudication as a
delinquent child, or disposition of a child for an act that if committed by an
adult would be a crime or to assist a child to benefit from the commission of
an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime, shall do any of the
following:
      (1)   Harbor or conceal the other person or child.
      (2)   Provide the other person or child with money, transportation, a
weapon, a disguise, or other means of avoiding discovery or apprehension.
      (3)   Warn the other person or child of impending discovery or
apprehension.
      (4)   Destroy or conceal physical evidence of the crime or act, or induce
any person to withhold testimony or information or to elude legal process
summoning him or her to testify or supply evidence.
      (5)   Communicate false information to any person.
      (6)   Prevent or obstruct any person, by means of force, intimidation, or
deception, from performing any act to aid in the discovery, apprehension, or
prosecution of the other person or child.
   (B)   A person may be prosecuted for, and may be convicted of or adjudicated
a delinquent child for committing, a violation of division (A) of this section
regardless of whether the person or child aided ultimately is apprehended for,
is charged with, is convicted of, pleads guilty to, or is adjudicated a
delinquent child for committing the crime or act the person or child aided
committed. The crime or act the person or child aided committed shall be used
under division (C) of this section in determining the penalty for violation of
division (A) of this section, regardless of whether the person or child aided
ultimately is apprehended for, is charge with, is convicted of, pleads guilty
to, or is adjudicated a delinquent child for committing the crime or act the
person or child aided committed.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of obstructing justice.
      (1)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a misdemeanor or if
the act committed by the child aided would be a misdemeanor if committed by an
adult, obstructing justice is a misdemeanor of the same degree as the crime
committed by the person aided or a misdemeanor of the same degree that the act
committed by the child aided would be if committed by an adult.
      (2)   If the crime committed by the person aided is a felony or if the
act committed by the child aided would be a felony if committed by an adult, or
if the crime or act committed by the person or child aided is an act of
terrorism, obstructing justice is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      ACT OF TERRORISM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.21.
      ADULT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2151.011.
      DELINQUENT CHILD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2152.02.
(R.C. § 2921.32)
§ 136.08 RESISTING ARREST.
   (A)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of himself, herself or another.
   (B)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person and, during the course of or as a
result of the resistance or interference, cause physical harm to a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   No person, recklessly or by force, shall resist or interfere with a
lawful arrest of the person or another person if either of the following
applies:
      (1)   The offender, during the course of or as a result of the resistance
or interference, recklessly causes physical harm to a law enforcement officer
by means of a deadly weapon; or
      (2)   The offender, during the course of the resistance or interference,
brandishes a deadly weapon.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of resisting arrest. A
violation of division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. A violation of division (C) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, DEADLY WEAPON has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2923.11.
(R.C. § 2921.33)
Statutory reference:
   Unlawful taking of deadly weapon from a law enforcement officer, felony
offense, see R.C. § 2911.01
§ 136.09 HAVING AN UNLAWFUL INTEREST IN A PUBLIC CONTRACT.
   (A)   No public official shall knowingly do any of the following:
      (1)   Authorize or employ the authority of the public official’s office
to secure authorization of any public contract in which the public official, a
member of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s
business associates has an interest.
      (2)   Authorize or employ the authority or influence of the public
official’s office to secure the investment of public funds in any share, bond,
mortgage, or other security with respect to which the public official, a member
of the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates either has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any
brokerage, origination, or servicing fees.
      (3)   During the public official’s term of office or within one year
thereafter, occupy any position of profit in the prosecution of a public
contract authorized by the public official or by a legislative body,
commission, or board of which the public official was a member at the time of
authorization, unless the contract was let by competitive bidding to the lowest
and best bidder.
      (4)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
entered into by or for the use of the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality with which the public official is connected.
      (5)   Have an interest in the profits or benefits of a public contract
that is not let by competitive bidding when required by law, and that involves
more than $150.
   (B)   In the absence of bribery or a purpose to defraud, a public official,
member of a public official’s family, or any of a public official’s business
associates shall not be considered as having an interest in a public contract
or the investment of public funds, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The interest of that person is limited to owning or controlling
shares of the corporation, or being a creditor of the corporation or other
organization, that is the contractor on the public contract involved, or that
is the issuer of the security in which public funds are invested.
      (2)   The shares owned or controlled by that person do not exceed 5% of
the outstanding shares of the corporation, and the amount due that person as
creditor does not exceed 5% of the total indebtedness of the corporation or
other organization.
      (3)   That person, prior to the time the public contract is entered into,
files with the political subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality
involved, an affidavit giving that person’s exact status in connection with the
corporation or other organization.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a public contract in which a public
official, member of a public official’s family, or one of a public official’s
business associates has an interest, when all of the following apply:
      (1)   The subject of the public contract is necessary supplies or
services for the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved.
      (2)   The supplies or services are unobtainable elsewhere for the same or
lower cost, or are being furnished to the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality as part of a continuing course of dealing established
prior to the public official’s becoming associated with the political
subdivision or governmental agency or instrumentality involved.
      (3)   The treatment accorded the political subdivision or governmental
agency or instrumentality is either preferential to or the same as that
accorded other customers or clients in similar transactions.
      (4)   The entire transaction is conducted at arm’s length, with full
knowledge by the political subdivision or governmental agency or
instrumentality involved, of the interest of the public official, member of the
public official’s family, or business associate, and the public official takes
no part in the deliberations or decision of the political subdivision or
governmental agency or instrumentality with respect to the public contract.
   (D)   Division (A)(4) of this section does not prohibit participation by a
public employee in any housing program funded by public monies if the public
employee otherwise qualifies for the program and does not use the authority or
influence of the public employee’s office or employment to secure benefits from
the program and if the monies are to be used on the primary residence of the
public employee. Such participation does not constitute an unlawful interest in
a public contract in violation of this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of having an unlawful interest
in a public contract. Violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is
a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. Violation of division
(A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (F)   It is not a violation of this section for a prosecuting attorney to
appoint assistants and employees in accordance with R.C. §§ 309.06 and
2921.421, or for a chief legal officer of a municipality or an official
designated as prosecutor in a municipality to appoint assistants and employees
in accordance with R.C. §§ 733.621 and 2921.421, or for a township law director
appointed under R.C. § 504.15 to appoint assistants and employees in accordance
with R.C. §§ 504.151 and 2921.421.
   (G)   Any public contract in which a public official, a member of the public
official’s family, or any of the public official’s business associates has an
interest in violation of this section is void and unenforceable. Any contract
securing the investment of public funds in which a public official, a member of
the public official’s family, or any of the public official’s business
associates has an interest, is an underwriter, or receives any brokerage,
origination or servicing fees and that was entered into in violation of this
section is void and unenforceable.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      CHIEF LEGAL OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 733.621.
      PUBLIC CONTRACT. Means any of the following:
         (a)   The purchase or acquisition, or a contract for the purchase or
acquisition, of property or services by or for the use of the state or any of
its political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either,
including the employment of an individual by the state, any of its political
subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality of either.
         (b)   A contract for the design, construction, alteration, repair, or
maintenance of any public property.
(R.C. § 2921.42)
Statutory reference:
   Assistants and employees of Prosecutors, Law Directors, and Solicitors, see
R.C. § 2921.421
§ 136.10 SOLICITING OR RECEIVING IMPROPER COMPENSATION.
   (A)   No public servant shall knowingly solicit or accept and no person
shall knowingly promise or give to a public servant either of the following:
      (1)   Any compensation, other than as allowed by R.C. § 102.03(G), (H),
(I), or other provisions of law, to perform the public servant’s official
duties, to perform any other act or service in the public servant’s public
capacity, for the general performance of the duties of the public servant’s
public office or public employment, or as a supplement to the public servant’s
public compensation.
      (2)   Additional or greater fees or costs than are allowed by law to
perform the public servant’s official duties.
   (B)   No public servant for the public servant’s own personal or business
use and no person for the person’s own personal or business use or for the
personal or business use of a public servant or party official, shall solicit
or accept anything of value in consideration of either of the following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (C)   No person for the benefit of a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity shall coerce any contribution in consideration of either of the
following:
      (1)   Appointing or securing, maintaining, or renewing the appointment of
any person to any public office, employment, or agency.
      (2)   Preferring, or maintaining the status of, any public employee with
respect to compensation, duties, placement, location, promotion, or other
material aspects of employment.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of soliciting improper
compensation, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (E)   A public servant who is convicted of a violation of this section is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for a period of seven years from the date of conviction.
   (F)   Divisions (A), (B), and (C) of this section do not prohibit any person
from making voluntary contributions to a political party, campaign committee,
legislative campaign fund, political action committee or political contributing
entity or prohibit a political party, campaign committee, legislative campaign
fund, political action committee or political contributing entity from
accepting voluntary contributions.
(R.C. § 2921.43)
§ 136.11 DERELICTION OF DUTY.
   (A)   No law enforcement officer shall negligently do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to serve a lawful warrant without delay.
      (2)   Fail to prevent or halt the commission of an offense or to
apprehend an offender, when it is in the law enforcement officer’s power to do
so alone or with available assistance.
   (B)   No law enforcement, ministerial, or judicial officer shall negligently
fail to perform a lawful duty in a criminal case or proceeding.
   (C)   No officer, having charge of a detention facility, shall negligently
do any of the following:
      (1)   Allow the detention facility to become littered or unsanitary.
      (2)   Fail to provide persons confined in the detention facility with
adequate food, clothing, bedding, shelter, and medical attention.
      (3)   Fail to control an unruly prisoner, or to prevent intimidation of
or physical harm to a prisoner by another.
      (4)   Allow a prisoner to escape.
      (5)   Fail to observe any lawful and reasonable regulation for the
management of the detention facility.
   (D)   No public official shall recklessly create a deficiency, incur a
liability, or expend a greater sum than is appropriated by the Legislative
Authority for the use in any one year of the department, agency, or institution
with which the public official is connected.
   (E)   No public servant shall recklessly fail to perform a duty expressly
imposed by law with respect to the public servant’s office, or recklessly do
any act expressly forbidden by law with respect to the public servant’s office.
   (F)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of dereliction of duty, a
misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a public servant who is a county
treasurer; county auditor; township fiscal officer; city auditor; city
treasurer; village fiscal officer; village clerk-treasurer; village clerk; in
the case of a municipal corporation having a charter that designates an officer
who, by virtue of the charter, has duties and functions similar to those of the
city or village officers referred to in this section, the officer so designated
by the charter; school district treasurer; fiscal officer of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314; treasurer of a science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics school established under R.C. Chapter 3326; or
fiscal officer of a college-preparatory boarding school established under R.C.
Chapter 3328 and is convicted of or pleads guilty to dereliction of duty is
disqualified from holding any public office, employment, or position of trust
in this state for four years following the date of conviction or of entry of
the plea, and is not entitled to hold any public office until any repayment or
restitution required by the court is satisfied.
   (H)   As used in this section, PUBLIC SERVANT includes the following:
      (1)   An officer or employee of a contractor as defined in R.C. § 9.08;
      (2)   A fiscal officer employed by the operator of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314 or by the operator of a college-preparatory
boarding school established under R.C. Chapter 3328.
(R.C. § 2921.44)
§ 136.12 INTERFERING WITH CIVIL RIGHTS.
   (A)   No public servant, under color of the public servant’s office,
employment, or authority, shall knowingly deprive, or conspire or attempt to
deprive any person of a constitutional or statutory right.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of interfering with civil
rights, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.45)
Statutory reference:
   Restraining or confining pregnant children or pregnant women, see R.C. §
2152.75(B) and R.C. § 2901.10
§ 136.13 ILLEGAL CONVEYANCE OF PROHIBITED ITEMS ONTO GROUNDS OF A DETENTION
FACILITY OR OTHER SPECIFIED GOVERNMENTAL FACILITY.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly convey, or attempt to convey, onto the
grounds of a detention facility or of an institution, office building, or other
place that is under the control of the Department of Mental Health and
Addiction Services, the Department of Developmental Disabilities, the
Department of Youth Services, or the Department of Rehabilitation and
Correction, any of the following items:
      (1)   Any deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance, as defined in R.C. §
2923.11, or any part of or ammunition for use in such deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   Any drug of abuse, as defined in R.C. § 3719.011.
      (3)   Any intoxicating liquor, as defined in R.C. § 4301.01, except for
small amounts of wine for sacramental purposes when the person engaging in the
specified conduct is a cleric, as defined in R.C. § 2317.02.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who conveys
or attempts to convey an item onto the grounds of a detention facility or of an
institution, office building, or other place under the control of the
Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services, the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, the Department of Youth Services, or the Department
of Rehabilitation and Correction, with written authorization of the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place and in accordance with the written rules of the detention facility or the
institution, office building, or other place.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, to a prisoner who is temporarily released from confinement
for a work assignment, or to any patient in an institution under the control of
the Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services or the Department of
Developmental Disabilities, any item listed in division (A).
   (D)   No person shall knowingly deliver or attempt to deliver cash to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly deliver, or attempt to deliver, to any
person who is confined in a detention facility, to a child confined in a youth
services facility, or to a prisoner who is temporarily released from
confinement for a work assignment a cellular telephone, two-way radio, or other
electronic communications device.
   (F)   (1)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1)
of this section that the weapon or dangerous ordnance in question was being
transported in a motor vehicle for any lawful purpose, that it was not on the
actor’s person, and if the weapon or dangerous ordnance was a firearm, that it
was unloaded and was being carried in a closed package, box or case or in a
compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (C) of this
section that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by law from delivering the
item to the confined person, the child, the prisoner, or the patient and that
either of the following applies:
         (a)   The actor was permitted by the written rules of the detention
facility or the institution, office building, or other place to deliver the
item to the confined person or the patient.
         (b)   The actor was given written authorization by the person in
charge of the detention facility or the institution, office building, or other
place to deliver the item to the confined person or the patient.
   (G)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any item listed in division
(A)(1) of this section is guilty of illegal conveyance of weapons onto the
grounds of a specified governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any drug of abuse is guilty
of illegal conveyance of drugs of abuse onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (A)(3) of this section or commits a
violation of division (C) of this section involving any intoxicating liquor is
guilty of illegal conveyance of intoxicating liquor onto the grounds of a
specified governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of cash onto the grounds of a detention facility, a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (D) of this section or a substantially
equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, illegal conveyance of cash onto
the grounds of a detention facility is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (5)   Whoever violates division (E) of this section is guilty of illegal
conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a specified
governmental facility, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender
previously has been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)
of this section or a substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance,
illegal conveyance of a communications device onto the grounds of a detention
facility is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.36)
   (H)   The person in charge of a detention facility shall, on the grounds of
the detention facility, have the same power as a peace officer, as defined in
R.C. § 2935.01, to arrest a person who violates this section.
(R.C. § 2921.37)
Cross-reference:
   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety
zone, see §
137.11
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, see §
137.12
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 136.14 FALSE REPORT OF CHILD ABUSE OR NEGLECT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make or cause another person to make a false
report under R.C. § 2151.421(B) alleging that any person has committed an act
or omission that resulted in a child being an abused child as defined in R.C. §
2151.031 or a neglected child as defined in R.C. § 2151.03.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of making or causing a false
report of child abuse or child neglect, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2921.14)
§ 136.15 ASSAULTING POLICE DOG OR HORSE, OR ASSISTANCE DOG.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
a police dog or horse in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in
the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical harm
is caused or attempted.
      (2)   The police dog or horse is not assisting a law enforcement officer
in the performance of the officer’s official duties at the time the physical
harm is caused or attempted, but the offender has actual knowledge that the dog
or horse is a police dog or horse.
   (B)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike a police dog or horse;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at a police dog or horse;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct a police dog or horse, or interfere with
or obstruct a law enforcement officer who is being assisted by a police dog or
horse, in a manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the law enforcement officer’s control of
the police dog or horse;
         (b)   Deprives the law enforcement officer of control of the police
dog or horse;
         (c)   Releases the police dog or horse from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the police dog or horse without
the consent of the law enforcement officer, including placing food or any other
object or substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the police dog or horse to
assist a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to a police dog or horse;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack, or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger a police dog or horse that at the time of the conduct, the
police dog or horse is assisting a law enforcement officer in the performance
of the officer’s duties or that the person knows is a police dog or horse.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly cause, or attempt to cause, physical harm to
an assistance dog in either of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment.
      (2)   The dog, at the time the physical harm is caused or attempted, is
not assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment, but the offender has actual knowledge that
the dog is an assistance dog.
   (D)   No person shall recklessly do any of the following:
      (1)   Taunt, torment, or strike an assistance dog;
      (2)   Throw an object or substance at an assistance dog;
      (3)   Interfere with or obstruct an assistance dog, or interfere with or
obstruct a person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired or a person with a
mobility impairment who is being assisted or served by an assistance dog, in a
manner that does any of the following:
         (a)   Inhibits or restricts the assisted or served person’s control of
the dog;
         (b)   Deprives the assisted or served person of control of the dog;
         (c)   Releases the dog from its area of control;
         (d)   Enters the area of control of the dog without the consent of the
assisted or served person, including placing food or any other object or
substance into that area;
         (e)   Inhibits or restricts the ability of the dog to assist the
assisted or served person;
      (4)   Engage in any conduct that is likely to cause serious physical
injury or death to an assistance dog;
      (5)   If the person is the owner, keeper or harborer of a dog, fail to
reasonably restrain the dog from taunting, tormenting, chasing, approaching in
a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of attack or attempting to bite or
otherwise endanger an assistance dog that at the time of the conduct is
assisting or serving a person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired or a
person with a mobility impairment or that the person knows is an assistance
dog.
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of
assaulting a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, assaulting a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. If the violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse
other than death or serious physical harm, assaulting a police dog or horse is
a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death, assaulting a police
dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of
harassing a police dog or horse. Except as otherwise provided this division,
harassing a police dog or horse is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the police dog or horse but does not
result in its death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing a police dog
or horse is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in
serous physical harm to the police dog or horse or results in its death,
harassing a police dog or horse is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C) of this section is guilty of
assaulting an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog other than death or
serious physical harm, assaulting an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the
first degree. If the violation results in serious physical harm to the
assistance dog or results in its death, assaulting an assistance dog is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (D) of this section is guilty of
harassing an assistance dog. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
harassing an assistance dog is a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the
violation results in physical harm to the assistance dog but does not result in
the death or in serious physical harm to it, harassing an assistance dog is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the violation results in serious physical
harm to the assistance dog or results in its death, harassing an assistance dog
is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   In addition to any other sanctions or penalty imposed for the
offense under this section, R.C. Chapter 2929 or any other provision of the
Ohio Revised Code or this code, whoever violates division (A), (B), (C), or (D)
of this section is responsible for the payment of all of the following:
         (a)   Any veterinary bill or bill for medication incurred as a result
of the violation by the police department regarding a violation of division (A)
or (B) of this section or by the person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired
or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served by the assistance
dog regarding a violation of division (C) or (D) of this section;
         (b)   The cost of any damaged equipment that results from the
violation;
         (c)   If the violation did not result in the death of the police dog
or horse or the assistance dog that was the subject of the violation and if, as
a result of that dog or horse being the subject of the violation, the dog or
horse needs further training or retraining to be able to continue in the
capacity of a police dog or horse or an assistance dog, the cost of any further
training or retraining of that dog or horse by a law enforcement officer or by
the person who is blind, deaf or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility
impairment assisted or served by the assistance dog;
         (d)   If the violation resulted in the death of the assistance dog
that was the subject of the violation or resulted in serious physical harm to
the police dog or horse or the assistance dog or horse that was the subject of
the violation to the extent that the dog or horse needs to be replaced on
either a temporary or a permanent basis, the cost of replacing that dog or
horse and of any further training of a new police dog or horse or a new
assistance dog by a law enforcement officer or by the person who is blind, deaf
or hearing impaired or the person with a mobility impairment assisted or served
by the assistance dog, which replacement or training is required because of the
death of or the serious physical harm to the dog or horse that was the subject
of the violation.
   (F)   This section does not apply to a licensed veterinarian whose conduct
is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 4741.
   (G)   This section only applies to an offender who knows or should know at
the time of the violation that the police dog or horse or assistance dog that
is the subject of a violation under this section is a police dog or horse or an
assistance dog.
   (H)   As used in this section:
      ASSISTANCE DOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      BLIND. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 955.011.
      PERSON WITH A MOBILITY IMPAIRMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
955.011.
      PHYSICAL HARM. Means any injury, illness, or other psychological
impairment, regardless of its gravity or duration.
      POLICE DOG OR HORSE. Means a dog or horse that has been trained and may
be used to assist law enforcement officers in the performance of their official
duties.
      SERIOUS PHYSICAL HARM. Means any of the following:
         (a)   Any physical harm that carries a substantial risk of death.
         (b)   Any physical harm that causes permanent maiming or that involves
some temporary, substantial maiming.
         (c)   Any physical harm that causes acute pain of a duration that
results in substantial suffering.
(R.C. § 2921.321)
§ 136.16 DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL PEACE OFFICER INFORMATION.
   (A)   No officer or employee of a law enforcement agency or court, or of the
clerk’s office of any court, shall disclose during the pendency of any criminal
case the home address of any peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting
attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth
services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not prohibit a peace officer, parole
officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional
employee, or youth services employee from disclosing the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s own home address, and
does not apply to any person who discloses the home address of a peace officer,
parole officer, prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney,
correctional employee, or youth services employee pursuant to a court-ordered
disclosure under division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The court in which any criminal case is pending may order the
disclosure of the home address of any peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee who is a witness or arresting officer in the case, if
the court determines after a written request for the disclosure that good cause
exists for disclosing the home address of the peace officer, parole officer,
prosecuting attorney, assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or
youth services employee.
   (D)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of disclosure
of confidential information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2921.24)
   (E)   No judge of a court of record, or Mayor presiding over a Mayor’s
Court, shall order a peace officer, parole officer, prosecuting attorney,
assistant prosecuting attorney, correctional employee, or youth services
employee who is a witness in a criminal case, to disclose the peace officer’s,
parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant prosecuting attorney’s,
correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s home address during the
peace officer’s, parole officer’s, prosecuting attorney’s, assistant
prosecuting attorney’s, correctional employee’s, or youth services employee’s
examination in the case unless the judge or Mayor determines that the defendant
has a right to the disclosure.
   (F)   As used in this section:
      PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
      CORRECTIONAL EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
      YOUTH SERVICES EMPLOYEE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 149.43.
(R.C. § 2921.25)
§ 136.17 INTIMIDATION OF CRIME VICTIM OR WITNESS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly attempt to intimidate or hinder the victim
of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or prosecution of criminal charges
or a delinquent child action or proceeding, and no person shall knowingly
attempt to intimidate a witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of
the person being a witness to that act.
   (B)   No person, knowingly and by force or by unlawful threat of harm to any
person or property or by unlawful threat to commit any offense or calumny
against any person, shall attempt to influence, intimidate, or hinder any of
the following persons:
      (1)   The victim of a crime or delinquent act in the filing or
prosecution of criminal charges or a delinquent child action or proceeding;
      (2)   A witness to a criminal or delinquent act by reason of the person
being a witness to that act;
      (3)   An attorney by reason of the attorney’s involvement in any criminal
or delinquent child action or proceeding.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any person who is
attempting to resolve a dispute pertaining to the alleged commission of a
criminal offense, either prior to or subsequent to the filing of a complaint,
indictment, or information by participating in the arbitration, mediation,
compromise, settlement or conciliation of that dispute pursuant to an
authorization for arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement, or
conciliation of a dispute of that nature that is conferred by any of the
following:
      (1)   A section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (2)   The Rules of Criminal Procedure, the Rules of Superintendence for
Municipal Courts and County Courts, the Rules of Superintendence for Courts of
Common Pleas, or another rule adopted by the Ohio Supreme Court in accordance
with Ohio Constitution, Article IV, Section 5.
      (3)   A local rule of court, including but not limited to a local rule of
court that relates to alternative dispute resolution or other case management
programs and that authorizes the referral of disputes pertaining to the alleged
commission of certain types of criminal offenses to appropriate and available
arbitration, mediation, compromise, settlement or other conciliation programs.
      (4)   The order of a judge of a municipal court, county court, or court
of common pleas.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of intimidation of an
attorney, victim or witness in a criminal case. A violation of division (A) of
this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. A violation of division (B)
of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (E)   As used in this section, WITNESS means any person who has or claims to
have knowledge concerning a fact or facts concerning a criminal or delinquent
act, whether or not criminal or delinquent child charges are actually filed.
(R.C. § 2921.04)
Statutory reference:
   Retaliation, felony offense, see R.C. § 2921.05
§ 136.18 USING SHAM LEGAL PROCESS.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      LAWFULLY ISSUED. Means adopted, issued, or rendered in accordance with
the United States Constitution, the Constitution of a state, and the applicable
statutes, rules, regulations and ordinances of the United States, a state, and
the political subdivisions of a state.
      POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS. Means municipal corporations, townships,
counties, school districts, and all other bodies corporate and politic that are
organized under state law and are responsible for governmental activities only
in geographical areas smaller than that of a state.
      SHAM LEGAL PROCESS. Means an instrument that meets all of the following
conditions:
         (a)   It is not lawfully issued.
         (b)   It purports to do any of the following:
            1.   To be a summons, subpoena, judgment, or order of a court, a
law enforcement officer, or a legislative, executive or administrative body.
            2.   To assert jurisdiction over or determine the legal or
equitable status, rights, duties, powers, or privileges of any person or
property.
            3.   To require or authorize the search, seizure, indictment,
arrest, trial, or sentencing of any person or property.
         (c)   It is designed to make another person believe that it is
lawfully issued.
      STATE. Means a state of the United States, including without limitation
the state legislature, the highest court of the state that has statewide
jurisdiction, the offices of all elected state officers, and all departments,
boards, offices, commissions, agencies, institutions, and other
instrumentalities of the state. The term does not include the political
subdivisions of the state.
   (B)   No person shall, knowing the sham legal process to be a sham legal
process, do any of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly issue, display, deliver, distribute, or otherwise use
sham legal process.
      (2)   Knowingly use sham legal process to arrest, detain, search or seize
any person or the property of another person.
      (3)   Knowingly commit or facilitate the commission of an offense using
sham legal process.
      (4)   Knowingly commit a felony by using sham legal process.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B)(1) or (B)
(2) of this section that the use of sham legal process was for a lawful
purpose.
   (D)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using sham legal process. A
violation of division (B)(1) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree. A violation of division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree, except that if the purpose of a violation of
division (B)(3) of this section is to commit or facilitate the commission of a
felony, a violation of division (B)(3) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (B)(4) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2921.52(A) - (D))
Statutory reference:
   Civil liability, see R.C. § 2921.52(E)
§ 136.19 MAKING FALSE ALLEGATION OF PEACE OFFICER MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PEACE OFFICER has the same meaning as in R.C.
§ 2935.01.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly file a complaint against a peace officer
that alleges that the peace officer engaged in misconduct in the performance of
the officer’s duties if the person knows that the allegation is false.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of making a
false allegation of peace officer misconduct, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2921.15)
§ 136.20 MISUSE OF 9-1-1 SYSTEM.
   (A)   As used in this section, 9-1-1 SYSTEM means a system through which
individuals can request emergency service using the access number 9-1-1.
(R.C. § 128.01(A))
   (B)   No person shall knowingly use the telephone number of a 9-1-1 system
established under R.C. Chapter 128 to report an emergency if the person knows
that no emergency exists.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly use a 9-1-1 system for a purpose other than
obtaining emergency service.
   (D)   No person shall disclose or use any information concerning telephone
numbers, addresses, or names obtained from the database that serves the public
safety answering point of a 9-1-1 system established under R.C. Chapter 128,
except for any of the following purposes or under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   For the purpose of the 9-1-1 system;
      (2)   For the purpose of responding to an emergency call to an emergency
service provider;
      (3)   In the circumstance of the inadvertent disclosure of such
information due solely to technology of the wireless telephone network portion
of the 9-1-1 system not allowing access to the database to be restricted to 9-
1-1 specific answering lines at a public safety answering point;
      (4)   In the circumstance of access to a database being given by a
telephone company that is a wireless service provider to a public utility or
municipal utility in handling customer calls in times of public emergency or
service outages. The charge, terms, and conditions for the disclosure or use of
such information for the purpose of such access to a database shall be subject
to the jurisdiction of the Steering Committee;
      (5)    In the circumstance of access to a database given by a telephone
company that is a wireline service provider to a state and local government in
warning of a public emergency, as determined by the Steering Committee. The
charge, terms and conditions for the disclosure or use of that information for
the purpose of access to a database is subject to the jurisdiction of the
Steering Committee.
(R.C. § 128.96(F) - (H))
   (E)   (1)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (C) or (D) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree on a first offense and a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 128.99(A), (B))
§ 136.21 FAILURE TO DISCLOSE PERSONAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   No person who is in a public place shall refuse to disclose the
person’s name, address, or date of birth, when requested by a law enforcement
officer who reasonably suspects either of the following:
      (1)   The person is committing, has committed, or is about to commit a
criminal offense.
      (2)   The person witnessed any of the following:
         (a)   An offense of violence that would constitute a felony under the
laws of this state;
         (b)   A felony offense that causes or results in, or creates a
substantial risk of, serious physical harm to another person or property;
         (c)   Any attempt or conspiracy to commit, or complicity in
committing, any offenses identified in division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this
section;
         (d)   Any conduct reasonably indicating that any offense identified in
division (A)(2)(a) or (A)(2)(b) of this section or any attempt, conspiracy, or
complicity described in division (A)(2)(c) of this section has been, is being,
or is about to be committed.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of failure to
disclose one’s personal information, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
   (C)   Nothing in division (A) of this section requires a person to answer
any questions beyond that person’s name, address, or date of birth. Nothing in
division (A) of this section authorizes a law enforcement officer to arrest a
person for not providing any information beyond the person’s name, address, or
date of birth or for refusing to describe the offense observed.
   (D)   It is not a violation of division (A) of this section to refuse to
answer a question that would reveal a person’s age or date of birth if age is
an element of the crime that the person is suspected of committing.
(R.C. § 2921.29)
   (E)   No person entering an airport, train station, port, or other similar
critical transportation infrastructure site shall refuse to show identification
when requested by a law enforcement officer when there is a threat to security
and the law enforcement officer is requiring identification of all persons
entering the site.
   (F)   A law enforcement officer may prevent any person who refuses to show
identification when asked under the circumstances described in division (E) of
this section from entering the critical transportation infrastructure site.
(R.C. § 2909.31)
CHAPTER 137: WEAPONS CONTROL
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.02   Carrying concealed weapons
   
137.03   Using weapons while intoxicated
   
137.04   Improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle
   
137.05   Possessing criminal tools
   
137.06   Failure to secure dangerous ordnance
   
137.07   Unlawful transactions in weapons
   
137.08   Underage purchase of firearm or handgun
   
137.09   Pointing and discharging firearms and other weapons
   
137.10   License or permit to possess dangerous ordnance
   
137.11   Possession of an object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school
safety zone
   
137.12   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention
   
137.13   Concealed handgun licenses: possession of a revoked or suspended
license; additional restrictions; posting of signs prohibiting possession
   
137.14   Defaced firearms
Cross-reference:
   Conveyance into certain facilities, see §
136.13
   Injury to persons by hunters, see §
135.05
   Injury to property by hunters, see §
131.24
   Using weapons to endanger or damage aircraft or airport operations, see §
131.05
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE DUTY. Has the same meaning as defined in 10 U.S.C. § 101.
   ALIEN REGISTRATION NUMBER. The number issued by the United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services Agency that is located on the alien’s
permanent resident card and may also be commonly referred to as the “USCIS
number” or the “alien number”.
   AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
succession of cartridges with a single function of the trigger.
   BALLISTIC KNIFE. A knife with a detachable blade that is propelled by a
spring-operated mechanism.
   CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED HANDGUN.
      (1)   Means, subject to division (2) of this definition, a license or
temporary emergency license to carry a concealed handgun issued under R.C. §
2923.125 or R.C. § 2923.1213 or a license to carry a concealed handgun issued
by another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
      (2)   A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed handgun
license issued under R.C. § 2923.125 or a license to carry a concealed handgun
issued under R.C. § 2923.125 means only a license of the type that is specified
in that section. A reference in any provision of this Code to a concealed
handgun license issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, a license to carry a concealed
handgun issued under R.C. § 2923.1213, or a license to carry a concealed
handgun on a temporary emergency basis means only a license of the type that is
specified in R.C. § 2923.1213. A reference in any provision of this Code to a
concealed handgun license issued by another state or a license to carry a
concealed handgun issued by another state means only a license issued by
another state with which the Attorney General has entered into a reciprocity
agreement under R.C. § 109.69.
   DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
      (1)   Any of the following, except as provided in division (2) of this
definition:
         (a)   Any automatic or sawed-off firearm, zip-gun, or ballistic knife.
         (b)   Any explosive device or incendiary device.
         (c)   Nitroglycerin, nitrocellulose, nitrostarch, PETN, cyclonite,
TNT, picric acid, and other high explosives; amatol, tritonal, tetrytol,
pentolite, pecretol, cyclotol, and other high explosive compositions; plastic
explosives; dynamite, blasting gelatin, gelatin dynamite, sensitized ammonium
nitrate, liquid-oxygen blasting explosives, blasting powder, and other blasting
agents; and any other explosive substance having sufficient brisance or power
to be particularly suitable for use as a military explosive, or for use in
mining, quarrying, excavating, or demolitions.
         (d)   Any firearm, rocket launcher, mortar, artillery piece, grenade,
mine, bomb, torpedo, or similar weapon, designed and manufactured for military
purposes, and the ammunition for that weapon.
         (e)   Any firearm muffler or suppressor.
         (f)   Any combination of parts that is intended by the owner for use
in converting any firearm or other device into a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The term does not include any of the following:
         (a)   Any firearm, including a military weapon and the ammunition for
that weapon, and regardless of its actual age, that employs a percussion cap or
other obsolete ignition system, or that is designed and safe for use only with
black powder.
         (b)   Any pistol, rifle, or shotgun, designed or suitable for sporting
purposes, including a military weapon as issued or as modified, and the
ammunition for that weapon, unless the firearm is an automatic or sawed-off
firearm.
         (c)   Any cannon or other artillery piece that, regardless of its
actual age, is of a type in accepted use prior to 1887, has no mechanical,
hydraulic, pneumatic, or other system for absorbing recoil and returning the
tube into battery without displacing the carriage, and is designed and safe for
use only with black powder.
         (d)   Black powder, priming quills, and percussion caps possessed and
lawfully used to fire a cannon of a type defined in division (2)(c) of this
definition during displays, celebrations, organized matches or shoots, and
target practice, and smokeless and black powder, primers, and percussion caps
possessed and lawfully used as a propellant or ignition device in small-arms or
small- arms ammunition.
         (e)   Dangerous ordnance that is inoperable or inert and cannot
readily be rendered operable or activated, and that is kept as a trophy,
souvenir, curio, or museum piece.
         (f)   Any device that is expressly excepted from the definition of a
destructive device pursuant to the Gun Control Act of 1968, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)
(4), as amended, and regulations issued under that act.
         (g)   Any firearm with an overall length of at least 26 inches that is
approved for sale by the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives under the “Gun Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921
(a)(3), but that is found by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National
Firearms Act”, 68A Stat. 725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   DEADLY WEAPON. Any instrument, device, or thing capable of inflicting death,
and designed or specially adapted for use as a weapon, or possessed, carried,
or used as a weapon.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common
purpose of which is to function by explosion. The term includes all materials
that have been classified as division 1.1, division 1.2, division 1.3, or
division 1.4 explosives by the United States Department of Transportation in
its regulations and includes but is not limited to dynamite, black powder,
pellet powders, initiating explosives, blasting caps, electric blasting caps,
safety fuses, fuse igniters, squibs, cordeau detonant fuses, instantaneous
fuses, and igniter cords and igniters. The term does not include “fireworks”,
as defined in R.C. § 3743.01, or any substance or material otherwise meeting
the definition of explosive set forth in this section that is manufactured,
sold, possessed, transported, stored, or used in any activity described in R.C.
§ 3743.80, provided the activity is conducted in accordance with all applicable
laws, rules, and regulations, including but not limited to the provisions of
R.C. § 3743.80 and the rules of the Fire Marshal adopted pursuant to R.C. §
3737.82.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device designed or specially adapted to cause physical
harm to persons or property by means of an explosion, and consisting of an
explosive substance or agency and a means to detonate it. The term includes
without limitation any bomb, any explosive demolition device, any blasting cap
or detonator containing an explosive charge, and any pressure vessel that has
been knowingly tampered with or arranged so as to explode.
   FIREARM.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon capable of expelling or propelling one or more
projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible propellant. The term
includes an unloaded firearm, and any firearm that is inoperable but that can
readily be rendered operable.
      (2)   When determining whether a firearm is capable of expelling or
propelling one or more projectiles by the action of an explosive or combustible
propellant, the trier of fact may rely upon circumstantial evidence, including
but not limited to the representations and actions of the individual exercising
control over the firearm.
   HANDGUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm that has a short stock and is designed to be held and
fired by the use of a single hand;
      (2)   Any combination of parts from which a firearm of a type described
in division (1) of this definition can be assembled.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any firebomb, and any device designed or specially
adapted to cause physical harm to persons or property by means of fire, and
consisting of an incendiary substance or agent and a means to ignite it.
   MISDEMEANOR PUNISHABLE BY IMPRISONMENT FOR A TERM EXCEEDING ONE YEAR. The
phrase does not include any of the following:
      (1)   Any federal or state offense pertaining to antitrust violations,
unfair trade practices, restraints of trade, or other similar offenses relating
to the regulation of business practices;
      (2)   Any misdemeanor offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two
years or less.
   SAWED-OFF FIREARM. A shotgun with a barrel less than 18 inches long, or a
rifle with a barrel less than 16 inches long, or a shotgun or rifle less than
26 inches long overall. “Sawed-off firearm” does not include any firearm with
an overall length of at least 26 inches that is approved for sale by the
Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives under the “Gun
Control Act of 1968”, 82 Stat. 1213, 18 U.S.C. § 921(a)(3), but that is found
by the Bureau not to be regulated under the “National Firearms Act”, 68A Stat.
725 (1934), 26 U.S.C. § 5845(a).
   SEMI-AUTOMATIC FIREARM. Any firearm designed or specially adapted to fire a
single cartridge and automatically chamber a succeeding cartridge ready to
fire, with a single function of the trigger.
   VALID CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSE or VALID LICENSE TO CARRY A CONCEALED
HANDGUN. A concealed handgun license that is currently valid, that is not under
a suspension under R.C. § 2923.128(A)(1), under R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a
suspension provision of the state other than this state in which the license
was issued, and that has not been revoked under R.C. § 2923.128(B)(1), under
R.C. § 2923.1213, or under a revocation provision of the state other than this
state in which the license was issued.
   ZIP-GUN. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any firearm of crude and extemporized manufacture.
      (2)   Any device, including without limitation a starter’s pistol, not
designed as a firearm, but that is specially adapted for use as a firearm.
      (3)   Any industrial tool, signaling device, or safety device, not
designed as a firearm, but that as designed is capable of use as such, when
possessed, carried, or used as a firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.11)
§ 137.02 CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly carry or have, concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand, any of the following:
      (1)   A deadly weapon other than a handgun;
      (2)   A handgun other than a dangerous ordnance;
      (3)   A dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license shall do any
of the following:
      (1)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, before or at the time a law enforcement officer
asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose
that the person then is carrying a concealed handgun, provided that it is not a
violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact to an
officer during the stop and the person already has notified another officer of
that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight at any time after any law enforcement officer begins approaching
the person while stopped and before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless
the failure is pursuant to and in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer;
      (3)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose, if the
person is carrying a concealed handgun, and if the person is approached by any
law enforcement officer while stopped, knowingly remove or attempt to remove
the loaded handgun from the holster, pocket, or other place in which the person
is carrying it, knowingly grasp or hold the loaded handgun, or knowingly have
contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with the person’s hands or
fingers at any time after the law enforcement officer begins approaching and
before the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the person removes, attempts
to remove, grasps, holds, or has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to
and in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer;
      (4)   If the person is stopped for a law enforcement purpose and is
carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any
lawful order of any law enforcement officer given while the person is stopped,
including but not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the
person’s hands in plain sight.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or to a law enforcement officer, who is authorized to carry
concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry handguns and
is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry concealed weapons or dangerous ordnance or is authorized to carry
handguns, and who is subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C.
§ 109.801, unless the appointing authority of the person has expressly
specified that the exemption provided in this division (C)(1)(b) does not apply
to the person;
         (c)   A person’s transportation or storage of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in a motor vehicle for any
lawful purpose if the firearm is not on the actor’s person;
         (d)   A person’s storage or possession of a firearm, other than a
firearm described in R.C. § 2923.11(G) to (M), in the actor’s own home for any
lawful purpose.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to any person who
has been issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time of the
alleged carrying or possession of a handgun or who, at the time of the alleged
carrying or possession of a handgun, is an active duty member of the armed
forces of the United States and is carrying a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), unless
the person knowingly is in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (A)(1) of this
section of carrying or having control of a weapon other than a handgun and
other than a dangerous ordnance, that the actor was not otherwise prohibited by
law from having the weapon, and that any of the following applies:
      (1)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in or was going to or from the
actor’s lawful business or occupation, which business or occupation was of a
character or was necessarily carried on in a manner or at a time or place as to
render the actor particularly susceptible to criminal attack, such as would
justify a prudent person in going armed.
      (2)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for
defensive purposes, while the actor was engaged in a lawful activity and had
reasonable cause to fear a criminal attack upon the actor, a member of the
actor’s family, or the actor’s home, such as would justify a prudent person in
going armed.
      (3)   The weapon was carried or kept ready at hand by the actor for any
lawful purpose and while in the actor’s own home.
   (E)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of this section shall
be required to obtain a concealed handgun license as a condition for the
dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to or
has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B)(1) of this section as it
existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file an application under R.C. §
2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of conviction.
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of carrying concealed
weapons. Except as otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)
(6), and (F)(7) of this section, carrying concealed weapons in violation of
division (A) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree. Except as
otherwise provided in this division or divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7) of
this section, if the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of
this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance
or of any offense of violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is
either loaded or for which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the
weapon involved is dangerous ordnance, carrying concealed weapons in violation
of division (A) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law. Except as otherwise provided in divisions (F)(2), (F)(6), and (F)(7)
of this section, if the offense is committed aboard an aircraft, or with
purpose to carry a concealed weapon aboard an aircraft, regardless of the
weapon involved, carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (A) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   A person shall not be arrested for a violation of division (A)(2)
of this section solely because the person does not promptly produce a valid
concealed handgun license. If a person is arrested for a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section and is convicted of or pleads guilty to the violation,
the offender shall be punished as follows:
         (a)   The offender shall be guilty of a minor misdemeanor if both of
the following apply:
            1.   Within 10 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license, which license was valid at the time of the arrest to
the law enforcement agency that employs the arresting officer.
            2.   At the time of the arrest, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (b)   The offender shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined
$500 if all of the following apply:
            1.   The offender previously had been issued a concealed handgun
license, and that license expired within the two years immediately preceding
the arrest.
            2.   Within 45 days after the arrest, the offender presents a
concealed handgun license to the law enforcement agency that employed the
arresting officer, and the offender waives in writing the offender’s right to a
speedy trial on the charge of the violation that is provided in R.C. § 2945.71.
            3.   At the time of the commission of the offense, the offender was
not knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
         (c)   If divisions (F)(2)(a) and (F)(2)(b) and (F)(6) of this section
do not apply, the offender shall be punished under division (F)(1) or (F)(7) of
this section.
      (3)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(1) of this
section is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (4)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(2) or (B)
(4) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (B)(2) or (B)(4) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2).
      (5)   Carrying concealed weapons in violation of division (B)(3) of this
section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (6)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is an active duty m ember of the armed forces of the United States
and is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), and if at the time of the
violation the person was not knowingly in a place described in R.C. 2923.126
(B), the officer shall not arrest the person for a violation of that division.
If the person is not able to promptly produce a valid military identification
card and documentation of successful completion of firearms training that meets
or exceeds the training requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) and if
the person is not in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B), the officer shall
issue a citation and the offender shall be assessed a civil penalty of not more
than $500. The citation shall be automatically dismissed and the civil penalty
shall not be assessed if both of the following apply:
         (a)   Within ten days after the issuance of the citation, the offender
presents a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), which were both valid at the time of the
issuance of the citation to the law enforcement agency that employs the citing
officer.
         (b)   At the time of the citation, the offender was not knowingly in a
place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (7)   If a person being arrested for a violation of division (A)(2) of
this section is knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B)(5) and is
not authorized to carry a handgun or have a handgun concealed on the person’s
person or concealed ready at hand under that division, the penalty shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person
produces a valid concealed handgun license within ten days after the arrest and
has not previously been convicted or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a minor misdemeanor;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division (A)
(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree;
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to two violations of division
(A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or municipal
ordinance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree;
         (d)   Except as otherwise provided in this division, if the person has
previously been convicted of or pleaded guilty to three or more violations of
division (A)(2) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, or convicted of or pleaded guilty to any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is a
dangerous ordnance, the person is guilty of a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   If a law enforcement officer stops a person to question the person
regarding a possible violation of this section, for a traffic stop, or for any
other law enforcement purpose, if the person surrenders a firearm to the
officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the officer,
and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this section
or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise prohibited by
law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not contraband, the officer
shall return the firearm to the person at the termination of the stop. If a
court orders a law enforcement officer to return a firearm to a person pursuant
to the requirement set forth in this division, R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (H)   For purposes of this section, “deadly weapon” or “weapon” does not
include any knife, razor, or cutting instrument if the instrument was not used
as a weapon.
(R.C. § 2923.12)
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed handguns, licensing through county sheriff, see R.C. §§
2923.124 et seq.
   Concealed carry by a qualifying adult, see R.C. § 2923.111
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance on school
premises, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122
   Conveyance, possession, or control of deadly weapon or dangerous ordinance
in a courthouse, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.123
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offense, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
   Possession of firearm in liquor permit premises, felony offense, see R.C. §
2923.121
§ 137.03 USING WEAPONS WHILE INTOXICATED.
   (A)   No person, while under the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse,
shall carry or use any firearm or dangerous ordnance.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of using weapons while
intoxicated, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.15)
§ 137.04 IMPROPERLY HANDLING FIREARMS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly discharge a firearm while in or on a motor
vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded firearm in a
motor vehicle in such a manner that the firearm is accessible to the operator
or any passenger without leaving the vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a firearm in a motor
vehicle, unless the person may lawfully possess that firearm under applicable
law of this state or the United States, the firearm is unloaded, and the
firearm is carried in one of the following ways:
      (1)   In a closed package, box, or case.
      (2)   In a compartment that can be reached only by leaving the vehicle.
      (3)   In plain sight and secured in a rack or holder made for the
purpose.
      (4)   If the firearm is at least 24 inches in overall length as measured
from the muzzle to the part of the stock furthest from the muzzle and if the
barrel is at least 18 inches in length, either in plain sight with the action
open or the weapon stripped, or, if the firearm is of a type on which the
action will not stay open or which cannot easily be stripped, in plain sight.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport or have a loaded handgun in a
motor vehicle if, at the time of that transportation or possession, any of the
following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or a
combination of them.
      (2)   The person’s whole blood, blood serum or plasma, breath, or urine
contains a concentration of alcohol, a listed controlled substance, or a listed
metabolite of a controlled substance prohibited for persons operating a
vehicle, as specified in R.C. § 4511.19(A), regardless of whether the person at
the time of the transportation or possession as described in this division is
the operator of or a passenger in the motor vehicle.
   (E)   No person who has been issued a concealed handgun license or who is an
active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is carrying a
valid military identification card and documentation of successful completion
of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements described
in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1), who is the driver or an occupant of a motor vehicle
that is stopped as a result of a traffic stop or a stop for another law
enforcement purpose or is the driver or an occupant of a commercial motor
vehicle that is stopped by an employee of the motor carrier enforcement unit
for the purposes defined in R.C. § 5503.34, and who is transporting or has a
loaded handgun in the motor vehicle or commercial motor vehicle in any manner,
shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Before or at the time a law enforcement officer asks if the person
is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to disclose that the person
then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the motor vehicle, provided that it
is not a violation of this division if the person fails to disclose that fact
to an officer during the stop and the person already has notified another
officer of that fact during the same stop;
      (2)   Before or at the time an employee of the motor carrier enforcement
unit asks if the person is carrying a concealed handgun, knowingly fail to
disclose that the person then possesses or has a loaded handgun in the
commercial motor vehicle, provided that it is not a violation of this division
if the person fails to disclose that fact to an employee of the unit during the
stop and the person already has notified another employee of the unit of that
fact during the same stop;
      (3)   Knowingly fail to remain in the motor vehicle while stopped, or
knowingly fail to keep the person’s hands in plain sight at any time after any
law enforcement officer begins approaching the person while stopped and before
the law enforcement officer leaves, unless the failure is pursuant to and in
accordance with directions given by a law enforcement officer;
      (4)   Knowingly have contact with the loaded handgun by touching it with
the person’s hands or fingers in the motor vehicle at any time after the law
enforcement officer begins approaching and before the law enforcement officer
leaves, unless the person has contact with the loaded handgun pursuant to and
in accordance with directions given by the law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Knowingly disregard or fail to comply with any lawful order of any
law enforcement officer given while the motor vehicle is stopped, including but
not limited to a specific order to the person to keep the person’s hands in
plain sight.
   (F)   (1)   Divisions (A), (B), (C), and (E) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States, or a law enforcement officer, when authorized to carry or have
loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles and acting within the scope of
the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry or have loaded or accessible firearms in motor vehicles, and who is
subject to and in compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless
the appointing authority of the person has expressly specified that the
exemption provided in this division (F)(1)(b) does not apply to the person.
      (2)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   The person discharges a firearm from a motor vehicle at a coyote
or groundhog, the discharge is not during the deer gun hunting season as set by
the Chief of the Division of Wildlife of the Department of Natural Resources,
and the discharge at the coyote or groundhog, but for the operation of this
section, is lawful.
         (b)   The motor vehicle from which the person discharges the firearm
is on real property that is located in an unincorporated area of a township and
that is either zoned for agriculture or is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(2)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, highway or other public or
private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (3)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to a person if all of
the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person discharges a firearm at a wild quadruped or game bird
as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 during the open hunting season for the applicable
wild quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person discharges a firearm from a stationary all-purpose
vehicle as defined in R.C. § 1531.01 from private or publicly owned lands or
from a motor vehicle that is parked on a road that is owned or administered by
the Division of Wildlife.
         (d)   The person does not discharge the firearm in any of the
following manners:
            1.   While under the influence of alcohol, a drug of abuse, or
alcohol and a drug of abuse;
            2.   In the direction of a street, a highway, or other public or
private property that is used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking;
            3.   At or into an occupied structure that is a permanent or
temporary habitation;
            4.   In the commission of any violation of law, including but not
limited to a felony that includes, as an essential element, purposely or
knowingly causing or attempting to cause the death of or physical harm to
another and that was committed by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle.
      (4)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following circumstances apply:
         (a)   At the time of the alleged violation of either of those
divisions, the person is the operator of or a passenger in a motor vehicle.
         (b)   The motor vehicle is on real property that is located in an
unincorporated area of a township and that is either zoned for agriculture or
is used for agriculture.
         (c)   The person owns the real property described in division (F)(4)
(b) of this section, is the spouse or a child of another person who owns that
real property, is a tenant of another person who owns that real property, or is
the spouse or a child of a tenant of another person who owns that real
property.
         (d)   The person, prior to arriving at the real property described in
division (F)(4)(b) of this section, did not transport or possess a firearm in
the motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of this section
while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway or other public
or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic or parking.
      (5)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person who
transports or possesses a handgun in a motor vehicle if, at the time of that
transportation or possession, both of the following apply:
         (a)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person transporting or possessing the handgun is not
knowingly in a place described in R.C. § 2923.126(B).
      (6)   Divisions (B) and (C) of this section do not apply to a person if
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person possesses a valid all-purpose vehicle permit issued
under R.C. § 1533.103 by the Chief of the Division of Wildlife.
         (b)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 or a motor vehicle during the open hunting season for a wild
quadruped or game bird.
         (c)   The person is on or in an all-purpose vehicle as defined in R.C.
§ 1531.01 on private or publicly owned lands or on or in a motor vehicle that
is parked on a road that is owned or administered by the Division of Wildlife.
   (G)   (1)   The affirmative defenses authorized in R.C. § 2923.12(D)(1) and
(D)(2) are affirmative defenses to a charge under division (B) or (C) of this
section that involves a firearm other than a handgun.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under division (B) or (C)
of this section of improperly handling firearms in a motor vehicle that the
actor transported or had the firearm in the motor vehicle for any lawful
purpose and while the motor vehicle was on the actor’s own property, provided
that this affirmative defense is not available unless the person, immediately
prior to arriving at the actor’s own property, did not transport or possess the
firearm in a motor vehicle in a manner prohibited by division (B) or (C) of
this section while the motor vehicle was being operated on a street, highway,
or other public or private property used by the public for vehicular traffic.
   (H)   (1)   No person who is charged with a violation of division (B), (C),
or (D) of this section shall be required to obtain a concealed handgun license
as a condition for the dismissal of the charge.
      (2)   (a)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty
to or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E) of this section as it
existed prior to September 30, 2011, and the conduct that was the basis of the
violation no longer would be a violation of division (E) of this section on or
after September 30, 2011, or if a person is convicted of, was convicted of,
pleads guilty to or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (E)(1) or (E)
(2) of this section as it existed prior to June 13, 2022, the person may file
an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the expungement of the record of
conviction.
         (b)   If a person is convicted of, was convicted of, pleads guilty to,
or has pleaded guilty to a violation of division (B) or (C) of this section as
the division existed prior to September 30, 2011, and if the conduct that was
the basis of the violation no longer would be a violation of division (B) or
(C) of this section on or after September 30, 2011, due to the application of
division (F)(5) of this section as it exists on and after September 30, 2011,
the person may file an application under R.C. § 2953.35 requesting the
expungement of the record of conviction.
   (I)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of improperly handling
firearms in a motor vehicle. A violation of division (A) of this section is a
felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division
(C) of this section is a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of
division (D) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law and, if the loaded handgun is concealed on the person’s person, it is
also a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of
division (E)(1) or (E)(2) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (E)(4) of this section is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law. A violation of division (E)(3) or (E)
(5) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the offender
previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of division
(E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section or any substantially equivalent state law or
municipal ordinance, a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. In
addition to any other penalty or sanction imposed for a misdemeanor violation
of division (E)(3) or (E)(5) of this section, the offender’s concealed handgun
license shall be suspended pursuant to R.C. § 2923.128(A)(2). A violation of
division (B) of this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (J)   If a law enforcement officer stops a motor vehicle for a traffic stop
or any other purpose, if any person in the motor vehicle surrenders a firearm
to the officer, either voluntarily or pursuant to a request or demand of the
officer, and if the officer does not charge the person with a violation of this
section or arrest the person for any offense, the person is not otherwise
prohibited by law from possessing the firearm, and the firearm is not
contraband, the officer shall return the firearm to the person at the
termination of the stop. If a court orders a law enforcement officer to return
a firearm to a person pursuant to the requirement set forth in this division,
R.C. § 2923.163(B) applies.
   (K)   As used in this section:
      AGRICULTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 519.01.
      COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4506.25(A).
      HIGHWAY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      MOTOR CARRIER ENFORCEMENT UNIT. Means the Motor Carrier Enforcement Unit
in the Department of Public Safety, Division of State Highway Patrol, that is
created by R.C. § 5503.34.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      OCCUPIED STRUCTURE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2909.01.
      STREET. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 1531.01.
      UNLOADED.
         (a)   With respect to a firearm other than a firearm described in
division (d) of this definition, means that no ammunition is in the firearm in
question, no magazine or speed loader containing ammunition is inserted into
the firearm, and one of the following applies:
            1.   There is no ammunition in a magazine or speed loader that is
in the vehicle in question and that may be used with the firearm in question.
            2.   Any magazine or speed loader that contains ammunition and that
may be used with the firearm in question is stored in a compartment within the
vehicle in question that cannot be accessed without leaving the vehicle or is
stored in a container that provides complete and separate enclosure.
         (b)   For the purposes of division (a)2. of this definition, a
“container that provides complete and separate enclosure” includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
            1.   A package, box, or case with multiple compartments, as long as
the loaded magazine or speed loader and the firearm in question either are in
separate compartments within the package, box, or case, or, if they are in the
same compartment, the magazine or speed loader is contained within a separate
enclosure in that compartment that does not contain the firearm and that closes
using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop closing mechanism, or other
fastener that must be opened to access the contents or the firearm is contained
within a separate enclosure of that nature in that compartment that does not
contain the magazine or speed loader;
            2.   A pocket or other enclosure on the person of the person in
question that closes using a snap, button, buckle, zipper, hook and loop
closing mechanism, or other fastener that must be opened to access the
contents.
         (c)   For the purposes of divisions (a) and (b) of this definition,
ammunition held in stripper-clips or in en-bloc clips is not considered
ammunition that is loaded into a magazine or speed loader.
         (d)   “Unloaded” means, with respect to a firearm employing a
percussion cap, flintlock, or other obsolete ignition system, when the weapon
is uncapped or when the priming charge is removed from the pan.
   (L)   Divisions (a) and (b) of the definition of “unloaded” in division (K)
of this section do not affect the authority of a person who has been issued a
concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question to have one or
more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a vehicle,
without being transported as described in those divisions, as long as no
ammunition is in a firearm, other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as
permitted under any other provision of this chapter. A person who has been
issued a concealed handgun license that is valid at the time in question may
have one or more magazines or speed loaders containing ammunition anywhere in a
vehicle without further restriction, as long as no ammunition is in a firearm,
other than a handgun, in the vehicle other than as permitted under any
provision of this chapter.
(R.C. § 2923.16)
Statutory reference:
   Return of surrendered firearms by law enforcement, see R.C. § 2923.163
§ 137.05 POSSESSING CRIMINAL TOOLS.
   (A)   No person shall possess or have under his or her control any
substance, device, instrument, or article, with purpose to use it criminally.
   (B)   Each of the following constitutes prima facie evidence of criminal
purpose:
      (1)   Possession or control of any dangerous ordnance, or the materials
or parts for making a dangerous ordnance, in the absence of circumstances
indicating the dangerous ordnance, materials or parts are intended for a
legitimate use.
      (2)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article designed or specially adapted for criminal use.
      (3)   Possession or control of any substance, device, instrument, or
article commonly used for criminal purposes, under circumstances indicating the
item is intended for criminal use.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing criminal tools.
Except as otherwise provided in this division, possessing criminal tools is a
misdemeanor of the first degree. If the circumstances indicate that the
substance, device, instrument, or article involved in the offense was intended
for use in the commission of a felony, possessing criminal tools is a felony to
be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.24)
§ 137.06 FAILURE TO SECURE DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   No person, in acquiring, possessing, carrying, or using any dangerous
ordnance, shall negligently fail to take proper precautions:
      (1)   To secure the dangerous ordnance against theft, or against its
acquisition or use by any unauthorized or incompetent person.
      (2)   To insure the safety of persons and property.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of failure to a secure
dangerous ordnance, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.19)
§ 137.07 UNLAWFUL TRANSACTIONS IN WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person shall do any of the following:
      (1)   Recklessly sell, lend, give or furnish any firearm to any person
prohibited by R.C. § 2923.13 or 2923.15, or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance, from acquiring or using any firearm, or recklessly sell,
lend, give or furnish any dangerous ordnance to any person prohibited by R.C. §
2923.13, 2923.15 or 2923.17, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance,
from acquiring or using any dangerous ordnance;
      (2)   Possess any firearm or dangerous ordnance with purpose to dispose
of it in violation of division (A)(1) of this section;
      (3)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a federally licensed firearms
dealer or private seller to transfer a firearm or ammunition to any person in a
manner prohibited by state or federal law;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section, with
an intent to deceive, knowingly provide materially false information to a
federally licensed firearms dealer or private seller;
      (5)   Except as otherwise provided in division (B) of this section,
knowingly procure, solicit, persuade, encourage, or entice a person to act in
violation of division (A)(3) or (A)(4) of this section;
      (6)   When transferring any dangerous ordnance to another, negligently
fail to require the transferee to exhibit such identification, license, or
permit showing the transferee to be authorized to acquire dangerous ordnance
pursuant to R.C. § 2923.17, or negligently fail to take a complete record of
the transaction and forthwith forward a copy of the record to the sheriff of
the county or Safety Director or Police Chief of the municipality where the
transaction takes place;
      (7)   Knowingly fail to report to law enforcement authorities forthwith
the loss or theft of any firearm or dangerous ordnance in the person’s
possession and under his or her control.
   (B)   Divisions (A)(3), (A)(4), and (A)(5) of this section do not apply to
any of the following:
      (1)   A law enforcement officer who is acting within the scope of the
officer’s duties;
      (2)   A person who is acting in accordance with directions given by a law
enforcement officer described in division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of unlawful transactions in
weapons. A violation of division (A)(1), (A)(2), (A)(3), (A)(4), or (A)(5) of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. A
violation of division (A)(6) of this section is a misdemeanor of the second
degree. A violation of division (A)(7) of this section is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
   (D)   As used in this section:
      AMMUNITION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2305.401.
      FEDERALLY LICENSED FIREARMS DEALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5502.63.
      MATERIALLY FALSE INFORMATION. Means information regarding the transfer of
a firearm or ammunition that portrays an illegal transaction as legal or a
legal transaction as illegal.
      PRIVATE SELLER. Means a person who sells, offers for sale, or transfers a
firearm or ammunition and who is not a federally licensed firearms dealer.
(R.C. § 2923.20)
§ 137.08 UNDERAGE PURCHASE OF FIREARM OR HANDGUN.
   (A)   No person under 18 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a firearm.
   (B)   No person under 21 years of age shall purchase or attempt to purchase
a handgun; provided, that this division does not apply to the purchase or
attempted purchase of a handgun by a person 18 years of age or older and under
21 years of age if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is a law enforcement officer and has received firearms
training approved by the Ohio Peace Officer Training Council or equivalent
firearms training.
      (2)   The person is an active or reserve member of the armed services of
the United States or the Ohio National Guard, or was honorably discharged from
military service in the active or reserve armed services of the United States
or the Ohio National Guard, and the person has received firearms training from
the armed services or the national guard or equivalent firearms training.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of underage
purchase of a firearm, a delinquent act that would be a felony to be prosecuted
under appropriate state law if it could be committed by an adult. Whoever
violates division (B) of this section is guilty of underage purchase of a
handgun, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
(R.C. § 2923.211)
Statutory reference:
   Improperly furnishing firearms to a minor, felony, see R.C. § 2923.21
§ 137.09 POINTING AND DISCHARGING FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms on or near prohibited premises. No person shall
do any of the following:
      (1)   Without permission from the proper officials and subject to
division (B)(1) of this section, discharge a firearm upon or over a cemetery or
within 100 yards of a cemetery;
      (2)   Subject to division (B)(2) of this section, discharge of a firearm
on a lawn, park, pleasure ground, orchard, or other ground appurtenant to a
schoolhouse, church, or inhabited dwelling, the property of another, or a
charitable institution;
      (3)   Discharge a firearm upon or over a public road or highway.
   (B)   Application of division (A).
      (1)   Division (A)(1) of this section does not apply to a person who
while on the person’s own land, discharges a firearm.
      (2)   Division (A)(2) of this section does not apply to a person who owns
any type of property described in that division and who, while on the person’s
own enclosure, discharges a firearm.
   (C)   Penalty for violation of division (A). Whoever violates division (A)
of this section is guilty of discharge of a firearm on or near prohibited
premises. A violation of division (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section is a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree. A violation of division (A)(3) shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section, a
violation of division (A)(3) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
      (2)   If the violation created a substantial risk of physical harm to any
person, caused serious physical harm to property, caused physical harm to any
person, or caused serious physical harm to any person, a violation of division
(A)(3) is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 2923.162)
   (D)   Hunting near township park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, shoot, or kill game within one-half mile of a
township park unless the Board of Township Park Commissioners has granted
permission to kill game not desired within the limits prohibited by this
division.
(R.C. § 3773.06)
      (2)   Whoever violates division (D)(1) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 3773.99(A))
   (E)   Unlawful discharge. No person shall discharge any BB gun, air gun, or
firearm, or make use of any sling, bow and arrow, or crossbow, within the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (F)   Unlawful pointing or aiming. No person shall, intentionally and
without malice, point or aim any BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or any sling, bow
and arrow, or crossbow at or toward another.
   (G)   Penalty for violations of division (E) or (F). Whoever violates
division (E) or (F) of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
   (H)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit the firing of a military
salute or the firing of weapons by persons of the nation’s armed forces acting
under military authority, and shall not apply to law enforcement officials or
other government officials in the proper enforcement of the law, or to any
person in the proper exercise of the right of self defense, or to any person
otherwise lawfully permitted by proper federal, state or local authorities to
discharge a BB gun, air gun, or firearm, or to use a sling, bow and arrow, or
crossbow in a manner contrary to the provisions of this section. Division (E)
of this section does not extend to cases in which BB guns, air guns, or
firearms, or slings, bows and arrows, or crossbows are used in the confines of
structures or used within the confines of a person’s own property, provided
such use is under adult supervision and is approved by the municipality.
Statutory reference:
   Improperly discharging firearm at or into habitation or school safety zone,
felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.161
§ 137.10 LICENSE OR PERMIT TO POSSESS DANGEROUS ORDNANCE.
   (A)   Upon application to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business, and upon payment of the fee specified
in division (B) of this section, a license or temporary permit shall be issued
to qualified applicants to acquire, possess, carry or use a dangerous ordnance
for the following purposes:
      (1)   Contractors, wreckers, quarriers, mine operators and other persons
regularly employing explosives in the course of a legitimate business, with
respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired, possessed, carried or
used in the course of such business.
      (2)   Farmers, with respect to explosives and explosive devices acquired,
possessed, carried or used for agricultural purposes on lands farmed by them.
      (3)   Scientists, engineers, and instructors, with respect to a dangerous
ordnance acquired, possessed, carried or used in the course of bona fide
research or instruction.
      (4)   Financial institutions and armored car company guards, with respect
to automatic firearms lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or used by any such
person while acting within the scope of the person’s duties.
      (5)   In the discretion of the issuing authority, any responsible person,
with respect to a dangerous ordnance lawfully acquired, possessed, carried or
used for a legitimate research, scientific, educational, industrial or other
proper purpose.
   (B)   Application for a license or temporary permit under this section shall
be in writing under oath to the sheriff of the county or Safety Director or
Police Chief of the municipality where the applicant resides or has the
applicant’s principal place of business. The application shall be accompanied
by an application fee of $50 when the application is for a license, and an
application fee of $5 when the application is for a temporary permit. The fees
shall be paid into the General Revenue Fund of the county or municipality. The
application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, age, address, occupation and business address of the
applicant, if the applicant is a natural person, or the name, address, and
principal place of business of the applicant if the applicant is a corporation.
      (2)   A description of the dangerous ordnance for which a permit is
requested.
      (3)   A description of the places where and the manner in which the
dangerous ordnance is to be kept, carried, and used.
      (4)   A statement of the purposes for which the dangerous ordnance is to
be acquired, possessed, carried or used.
      (5)   Such other information as the issuing authority may require in
giving effect to this section.
   (C)   Upon investigation, the issuing authority shall issue a license or
temporary permit only if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is not otherwise prohibited by law from acquiring,
having, carrying or using a dangerous ordnance.
      (2)   The applicant is 21 years of age or over, if the applicant is a
natural person.
      (3)   It appears that the applicant has sufficient competence to safely
acquire, possess, carry or use the dangerous ordnance, and that proper
precautions will be taken to protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and
ensure the safety of persons and property.
      (4)   It appears that the dangerous ordnance will be lawfully acquired,
possessed, carried and used by the applicant for a legitimate purpose.
   (D)   The license or temporary permit shall identify the person to whom it
is issued, identify the dangerous ordnance involved and state the purposes for
which the license or temporary permit is issued, state the expiration date, if
any, and list such restrictions on the acquisition, possession, carriage, or
use of the dangerous ordnance as the issuing authority considers advisable to
protect the security of the dangerous ordnance and ensure the safety of persons
and property.
   (E)   A temporary permit shall be issued for the casual use of explosives
and explosive devices, and other consumable dangerous ordnance, and shall
expire within 30 days of its issuance. A license shall be issued for the
regular use of consumable dangerous ordnance, or for any non-consumable
dangerous ordnance, which license need not specify an expiration date, but the
issuing authority may specify such expiration date, not earlier than one year
from the date of issuance, as it considers advisable in view of the nature of
the dangerous ordnance and the purposes for which the license is issued.
   (F)   The dangerous ordnance specified in a license or temporary permit may
be obtained by the holder anywhere in the state. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.18(F),
the holder of a license may use such dangerous ordnance anywhere in the state.
The holder of a temporary permit may use such dangerous ordnance only within
the territorial jurisdiction of the issuing authority.
   (G)   The issuing authority shall forward to the State Fire Marshal a copy
of each license or temporary permit issued pursuant to this section, and a copy
of each record of a transaction in a dangerous ordnance and of each report of a
lost or stolen dangerous ordnance, given to the local law enforcement authority
as required by R.C. § 2923.20(A)(6) and (A)(7) or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance. The State Fire Marshal will keep a permanent file of all
licenses and temporary permits issued pursuant to this section, and of all
records of transactions in, and losses or thefts of a dangerous ordnance
forwarded by local law enforcement authorities pursuant to this section.
(R.C. § 2923.18)
§ 137.11 POSSESSION OF AN OBJECT INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A FIREARM IN A SCHOOL
SAFETY ZONE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess an object in a school safety zone if
both of the following apply:
      (1)   The object is indistinguishable from a firearm, whether or not the
object is capable of being fired.
      (2)   The person indicates that the person possesses the object and that
it is a firearm, or the person knowingly displays or brandishes the object and
indicates that it is a firearm.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   An officer, agent, or employee of this or any other state or the
United States who is authorized to carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
and is acting within the scope of the officer’s, agent’s, or employee’s duties;
         (b)   A law enforcement officer who is authorized to carry deadly
weapons or dangerous ordnance;
         (c)   A security officer employed by a board of education or governing
body of a school during the time that the security officer is on duty pursuant
to that contract of employment;
         (d)   1.   Any person not described in divisions (B)(1)(a) to (B)(1)
(c) of this section who has written authorization from the board of education
or governing body of a school to convey deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance
into a school safety zone or to possess a deadly weapon or dangerous ordnance
in a school safety zone and who conveys or possesses the deadly weapon or
dangerous ordnance in accordance with that authorization, provided both of the
following apply:
               a.   Either the person has successfully completed the
curriculum, instruction, and training established under R.C. § 5502.703, or the
person has received a certificate of having satisfactorily completed an
approved basic peace officer training program or is a law enforcement officer;
               b.   The board or governing body has notified the public, by
whatever means the affected school regularly communicates with the public, that
the board or governing body has authorized one or more persons to go armed
within a school operated by the board or governing authority.
            2.   A district board or school governing body that authorizes a
person under division (B)(1)(d) of this section shall require that person to
submit to an annual criminal records check conducted in the same manner as R.C.
§ 3319.39 or R.C. § 3319.391.
         (e)   Any person who is employed in this state, who is authorized to
carry deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance, and who is subject to and in
compliance with the requirements of R.C. § 109.801, unless the appointing
authority of the person has expressly specified that the exemption provided in
division (B)(1)(e) of this section does not apply to the person.
      (2)   This section does not apply to premises upon which home schooling
is conducted. This section also does not apply to a school administrator,
teacher or employee who possesses an object that is indistinguishable from a
firearm for legitimate school purposes during the course of employment, a
student who uses an object that is indistinguishable from a firearm under the
direction of a school administrator, teacher or employee, or any other person
who, with the express prior approval of a school administrator, possesses an
object that is indistinguishable from a firearm for a legitimate purpose,
including the use of the object in a ceremonial activity, a play, re-enactment
or other dramatic presentation, school safety training, or a ROTC activity or
another similar use of the object.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if, at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the
handgun, all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person does not enter into a school building or onto school
premises and is not at a school activity.
         (b)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (c)   The person is in the school safety zone in accordance with 18
U.S.C. § 922(q)(2)(B).
         (d)   The person is not knowingly in a place described in R.C. §
2923.126(B)(1) or (B)(3) through (B)(8).
      (4)   This section does not apply to a person who conveys or attempts to
convey a handgun into, or possesses a handgun in, a school safety zone if at
the time of that conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession of the handgun
all of the following apply:
         (a)   The person has been issued a concealed handgun license that is
valid at the time of the conveyance, attempted conveyance, or possession or the
person is an active duty member of the armed forces of the United States and is
carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of successful
completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training requirements
described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1).
         (b)   The person leaves the handgun in a motor vehicle.
         (c)   The handgun does not leave the motor vehicle.
         (d)   If the person exits the motor vehicle, the person locks the
motor vehicle.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal possession of an
object indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone. Except as
otherwise provided in this division, illegal possession of an object
indistinguishable from a firearm in a school safety zone is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation
of this section, illegal possession of an object indistinguishable from a
firearm in a school safety zone is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other penalty imposed upon a person who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of this section, and subject to
division (D)(2) of this section, if the offender has not attained 19 years of
age, regardless of whether the offender is attending or is enrolled in a school
operated by a board of education or for which the Director of Education and
Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. § 3301.07, the court shall
impose upon the offender a class four suspension of the offender's probationary
driver's license, restricted license, driver's license, commercial driver's
license, temporary instruction permit, or probationary commercial driver's
license that then is in effect from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(4)
and shall deny the offender the issuance of any permit or license of that type
during the period of the suspension. If the offender is not a resident of this
state, the court shall impose a class four suspension of the nonresident
operating privilege of the offender from the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02
(A)(4).
      (2)   If the offender shows good cause why the court should not suspend
one of the types of licenses, permits or privileges specified in division (D)
(1) of this section or deny the issuance of one of the temporary instruction
permits specified in division (D)(1) of this section, the court in its
discretion may choose not to impose the suspension, revocation or denial
required in division (D)(1) of this section, but the court, in its discretion,
instead may require the offender to perform community service for a number of
hours determined by the court.
   (E)   As used in this section, OBJECT THAT IS INDISTINGUISHABLE FROM A
FIREARM means an object made, constructed or altered so that, to a reasonable
person without specialized training in firearms, the object appears to be a
firearm.
(R.C. § 2923.122(C) - (G))
Statutory reference:
   Conveyance or possession of deadly weapons or dangerous ordnance in a school
safety zone, felony offense, see R.C. § 2923.122(A) and (B)
§ 137.12 POSSESSION OF DEADLY WEAPON WHILE UNDER DETENTION.
   (A)   As used in this section, DETENTION and DETENTION FACILITY have the
same meanings as in R.C. § 2921.01.
   (B)   No person under detention at a detention facility shall possess a
deadly weapon.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possession of a deadly
weapon while under detention.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2) of this section,
possession of a deadly weapon while under detention is a felony to be
prosecuted under state law.
      (2)   If the offender, at the time of the commission of the offense, was
under detention as an alleged or adjudicated delinquent child or unruly child
and if at the time the offender commits the act for which the offender was
under detention it would not be a felony if committed by an adult, possession
of a deadly weapon while under detention is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2923.131)
Statutory reference:
   Possession of deadly weapon while under detention, felony offenses, see R.C.
§ 2923.131
§ 137.13 CONCEALED HANDGUN LICENSES: POSSESSION OF A REVOKED OR SUSPENDED
LICENSE; ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS; POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITING POSSESSION.
   (A)   Possession of a revoked or suspended concealed handgun license.
      (1)   No person, except in the performance of official duties, shall
possess a concealed handgun license that was issued and that has been revoked
or suspended.
      (2)   Whoever violates this division (A) is guilty of possessing a
revoked or suspended concealed handgun license, a misdemeanor of the third
degree.
(R.C. § 2923.1211(B), (C))
   (B)   Additional restrictions. Pursuant to R.C. § 2923.126:
      (1)   A concealed handgun license that is issued under R.C. § 2923.125
shall expire five years after the date of issuance. A licensee who has been
issued a license under that section shall be granted a grace period of 30 days
after the licensee’s license expires during which the licensee’s license
remains valid. Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) of this
section, a licensee who has been issued a concealed handgun license under R.C.
§ 2923.125 or 2923.1213 may carry a concealed handgun anywhere in this state if
the license is valid when the licensee is in actual possession of a concealed
handgun. The licensee shall give notice of any change in the licensee’s
residence address to the sheriff who issued the license within 45 days after
that change.
      (2)   A valid concealed handgun license does not authorize the licensee
to carry a concealed handgun in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.12(B)
or in any manner prohibited under R.C. § 2923.16. A valid license does not
authorize the licensee to carry a concealed handgun into any of the following
places:
         (a)   A police station, sheriff’s office, or state highway patrol
station, premises controlled by the bureau of criminal identification and
investigation; a state correctional institution, jail, workhouse, or other
detention facility; any area of an airport passenger terminal that is beyond a
passenger or property screening checkpoint or to which access is restricted
through security measures by the airport authority or a public agency; or an
institution that is maintained, operated, managed, and governed pursuant to
R.C. § 5119.14(A) or R.C. § 5123.03(A)(1);
         (b)   A school safety zone if the licensee’s carrying the concealed
handgun is in violation of R.C. § 2923.122;
         (c)   A courthouse or another building or structure in which a
courtroom is located if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun is in
violation of R.C. § 2923.123;
         (d)   Any premises or open air arena for which a D permit has been
issued under R.C. Chapter 4303 if the licensee’s carrying the concealed handgun
is in violation of R.C. § 2923.121;
         (e)   Any premises owned or leased by any public or private college,
university, or other institution of higher education, unless the handgun is in
a locked motor vehicle or the licensee is in the immediate process of placing
the handgun in a locked motor vehicle or unless the licensee is carrying the
concealed handgun pursuant to a written policy, rule, or other authorization
that is adopted by the institution’s board of trustees or other governing body
and that authorizes specific individuals or classes of individuals to carry a
concealed handgun on the premises;
         (f)   Any church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship, unless
the church, synagogue, mosque, or other place of worship posts or permits
otherwise;
         (g)   Any building that is a government facility of this state or a
political subdivision of this state and that is not a building that is used
primarily as a shelter, restroom, parking facility for motor vehicles, or rest
facility and is not a courthouse or other building or structure in which a
courtroom is located that is subject to division (B)(2)(c) of this section,
unless the governing body with authority over the building has enacted a
statute, ordinance, or policy that permits a licensee to carry a concealed
handgun into the building;
         (h)   A place in which federal law prohibits the carrying of handguns.
      (3)   (a)   Nothing in this division (B) shall negate or restrict a rule,
policy, or practice of a private employer that is not a private college,
university, or other institution of higher education concerning or prohibiting
the presence of firearms on the private employer’s premises or property,
including motor vehicles owned by the private employer. Nothing in this
division (B) shall require a private employer of that nature to adopt a rule,
policy, or practice concerning or prohibiting the presence of firearms on the
private employer’s premises or property, including motor vehicles owned by the
private employer.
         (b)   1.   A private employer shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises or property of the private employer, including motor vehicles owned by
the private employer, unless the private employer acted with malicious purpose.
A private employer is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury,
death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to
the private employer’s decision to permit a licensee to bring, or prohibit a
licensee from bringing, a handgun onto the premises or property of the private
employer.
            2.   A political subdivision shall be immune from liability in a
civil action, to the extent and in the manner provided in R.C. Chapter 2744,
for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused
by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto any premises or property
owned, leased, or otherwise under the control of the political subdivision. As
used in this division, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2744.01.
            3.    An institution of higher education shall be immune from
liability in a civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or
property that allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a
handgun onto the premises of the institution, including motor vehicles owned by
the institution, unless the institution acted with malicious purpose. An
institution of higher education is immune from liability in a civil action for
any injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by
or related to the institution’s decision to permit a licensee or class of
licensees to bring a handgun onto the premises of the institution.
            4.   A nonprofit corporation shall be immune from liability in a
civil action for any injury, death, or loss to person or property that
allegedly was caused by or related to a licensee bringing a handgun onto the
premises of the nonprofit corporation, including any motor vehicle owned by the
nonprofit corporation, or to any event organized by the nonprofit corporation,
unless the nonprofit corporation acted with malicious purpose. A nonprofit
corporation is immune from liability in a civil action for any injury, death,
or loss to person or property that allegedly was caused by or related to the
nonprofit corporation’s decision to permit a licensee to bring a handgun onto
the premises of the nonprofit corporation or to any event organized by the
nonprofit corporation.
         (c)   1.   a.   Except as provided in division (B)(3)(c)2. of this
section and R.C. § 2923.1214, the owner or person in control of private land or
premises, and a private person or entity leasing land or premises owned by the
state, the United States, or a political subdivision of the state or the United
States, may post a sign in a conspicuous location on that land or on those
premises prohibiting persons from carrying firearms or concealed firearms on or
onto that land or those premises. Except as otherwise provided in this
division, a person who knowingly violates a posted prohibition of that nature
is guilty of criminal trespass in violation of R.C. § 2911.21(A)(4) and is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the fourth degree. If a person knowingly violates a
posted prohibition of that nature and the posted land or premises primarily was
a parking lot or other parking facility, the person is not guilty of criminal
trespass under R.C. § 2911.21 or under any other criminal law of this state or
criminal law, ordinance, or resolution of a political subdivision of this
state, and instead is subject only to a civil cause of action for trespass
based on the violation.
               b.    If a person knowingly violates a posted prohibition of the
nature described in this division and the posted land or premises is a child
care center, type A family child care home, or type B family child care home,
unless the person is a licensee who resides in a type A family child care home
or type B family child care home, the person is guilty of aggravated trespass
in violation of R.C. § 2911.211. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the person
previously has been convicted of a violation of this division or any
substantially equivalent state law or municipal ordinance, or of any offense of
violence, if the weapon involved is a firearm that is either loaded or for
which the offender has ammunition ready at hand, or if the weapon involved is
dangerous ordnance, the offender is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
            2.   A landlord may not prohibit or restrict a tenant who is a
licensee and who on or after September 9, 2008 enters into a rental agreement
with the landlord for the use of residential premises, and the tenant’s guest
while the tenant is present, from lawfully carrying or possessing a handgun on
those residential premises.
            3.   As used in division (B)(3)(c) of this section:
               LANDLORD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RENTAL AGREEMENT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
               RESIDENTIAL PREMISES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01,
except the term does not include a dwelling unit that is owned or operated by a
college or university.
               TENANT. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 5321.01.
      (4)   A person who holds a valid concealed handgun license issued by
another state that is recognized by the Attorney General pursuant to a
reciprocity agreement entered into pursuant to R.C. § 109.69 or a person who
holds a valid concealed handgun license under the circumstances described in
R.C. § 109.69(B) has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in this state
as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. § 2923.125
and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a person who has been
issued a license under that section that is valid at the time in question.
      (5)   (a)   A peace officer has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125, provided that the officer when carrying a concealed
handgun under authority of this division is carrying validating identification.
For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a peace officer shall be
considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   An active duty member of the armed forces of the United States
who is carrying a valid military identification card and documentation of
successful completion of firearms training that meets or exceeds the training
requirements described in R.C. § 2923.125(G)(1) has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions as
specified in this division (B).
         (c)   A tactical medical professional who is qualified to carry
firearms while on duty under R.C. § 109.771 has the same right to carry a
concealed handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun
license under R.C. § 2923.125.
         (d)   A fire investigator who is qualified to carry firearms while on
duty under R.C. § 109.774 has the same right to carry a concealed handgun in
this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license under R.C. §
2923.125.
      (6)   (a)   A qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired
peace officer identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this
section and a valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to
division (B)(6)(c) of this section has the same right to carry a concealed
handgun in this state as a person who was issued a concealed handgun license
under R.C. § 2923.125 and is subject to the same restrictions that apply to a
person who has been issued a license issued under that section that is valid at
the time in question. For purposes of reciprocity with other states, a
qualified retired peace officer who possesses a retired peace officer
identification card issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section and a
valid firearms requalification certification issued pursuant to division (B)(6)
(c) of this section shall be considered to be a licensee in this state.
         (b)   1.   Each public agency of this state or of a political
subdivision of this state that is served by one or more peace officers shall
issue a retired peace officer identification card to any person who retired
from service as a peace officer with that agency, if the issuance is in
accordance with the agency’s policies and procedures and if the person, with
respect to the person’s service with that agency, satisfies all of the
following:
               a.   The person retired in good standing from service as a peace
officer with the public agency, and the retirement was not for reasons of
mental instability.
               b.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was authorized to engage in or supervise the prevention,
detection, investigation, or prosecution of, or the incarceration of any person
for, any violation of law and the person had statutory powers of arrest.
               c.   At the time of the person’s retirement as a peace officer
with that agency, the person was trained and qualified to carry firearms in the
performance of the peace officer’s duties.
               d.   Before retiring from service as a peace officer with that
agency, the person was regularly employed as a peace officer for an aggregate
of 15 years or more, or, in the alternative, the person retired from service as
a peace officer with that agency, after completing any applicable probationary
period of that service, due to a service-connected disability, as determined by
the agency.
            2.   A retired peace officer identification card issued to a person
under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section shall identify the person by name,
contain a photograph of the person, identify the public agency of this state or
of the political subdivision of this state from which the person retired as a
peace officer and that is issuing the identification card, and specify that the
person retired in good standing from service as a peace officer with the
issuing public agency and satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)
(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(B)1.d. of this section. In addition to the required content
specified in this division, a retired peace officer identification card issued
to a person under division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section may include the firearms
requalification certification described in division (B)(6)(c) of this section,
and if the identification card includes that certification, the identification
card shall serve as the firearms requalification certification for the retired
peace officer. If the issuing public agency issues credentials to active law
enforcement officers who serve the agency, the agency may comply with division
(B)(6)(b)1. of this section by issuing the same credentials to persons who
retired from service as a peace officer with the agency and who satisfy the
criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section,
provided that the credentials so issued to retired peace officers are stamped
with the word “RETIRED”.
            3.   A public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state may charge persons who retired from service as a peace officer with
the agency a reasonable fee for issuing to the person a retired peace officer
identification card pursuant to division (B)(6)(b)1. of this section.
         (c)   1.   If a person retired from service as a peace officer with a
public agency of this state or of a political subdivision of this state and the
person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)
(b)1.d. of this section, the public agency may provide the retired peace
officer with the opportunity to attend a firearms requalification program that
is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required under R.C. §
109.801. The retired peace officer may be required to pay the cost of the
course.
            2.   If a retired peace officer who satisfies the criteria set
forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section attends a
firearms requalification program that is approved for purposes of firearms
requalification required under R.C. § 109.801, the retired peace officer’s
successful completion of the firearms requalification program requalifies the
retired peace officer for purposes of division (B)(6) of this section for five
years from the date on which the program was successfully completed, and the
requalification is valid during that five-year period. If a retired peace
officer who satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)(6)(b)1.a. to (B)
(6)(b)1.d. of this section satisfactorily completes such a firearms
requalification program, the retired peace officer shall be issued a firearms
requalification certification that identifies the retired peace officer by
name, identifies the entity that taught the program, specifies that the retired
peace officer successfully completed the program, specifies the date on which
the course was successfully completed, and specifies that the requalification
is valid for five years from that date of successful completion. The firearms
requalification certification for a retired peace officer may be included in
the retired peace officer identification card issued to the retired peace
officer under division (B)(6)(b) of this section.
            3.   A retired peace officer who attends a firearms requalification
program that is approved for purposes of firearms requalification required
under R.C. § 109.801 may be required to pay the cost of the program.
      (7)   As used in division (B) of this section:
         FIRE INVESTIGATOR. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 109.71.
         GOVERNING BODY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 154.01.
         GOVERNMENT FACILITY OF THIS STATE OR A POLITICAL SUBDIVISION OF THIS
STATE. Means any of the following:
            1.   A building or part of a building that is owned or leased by
the government of this state or a political subdivision of this state and where
employees of the government of this state or the political subdivision
regularly are present for the purpose of performing their official duties as
employees of the state or political subdivision;
            2.   The office of a deputy registrar serving pursuant to R.C.
Chapter 4503 that is used to perform deputy registrar functions.
         NONPROFIT CORPORATION. Means any private organization that is exempt
from federal income taxation pursuant to subsection 501(a) and described in
subsection 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code.
         QUALIFIED RETIRED PEACE OFFICER. Means a person who satisfies all of
the following:
            1.   The person satisfies the criteria set forth in divisions (B)
(6)(b)1.a. to (B)(6)(b)1.d. of this section.
            2.   The person is not under the influence of alcohol or another
intoxicating or hallucinatory drug or substance.
            3.   The person is not prohibited by federal law from receiving
firearms.
         RETIRED PEACE OFFICER IDENTIFICATION CARD. Means an identification
card that is issued pursuant to division (B)(6)(b) of this section to a person
who is a retired peace officer.
         TACTICAL MEDICAL PROFESSIONAL. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
109.71.
         VALIDATING IDENTIFICATION. Means photographic identification issued by
the agency for which an individual serves as a peace officer that identifies
the individual as a peace officer of the agency.
(R.C. § 2923.126)
   (C)   Posting of signs prohibiting possession. Each person, board, or entity
that owns or controls any place or premises identified in R.C. § 2923.126(B) as
a place into which a valid license does not authorize the licensee to carry a
concealed handgun, or a designee of such a person, board, or entity, shall post
in the following one or more conspicuous locations in the premises a sign that
contains a statement in substantially the following form: “Unless otherwise
authorized by law, pursuant to the Ohio Revised Code, no person shall knowingly
possess, have under the person’s control, convey, or attempt to convey a deadly
weapon or dangerous ordnance onto these premises.”
(R.C. § 2923.1212)
§ 137.14 DEFACED FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall do either of the following:
      (1)   Change, alter, remove, or obliterate the name of the manufacturer,
model, manufacturer’s serial number, or other mark of identification on a
firearm.
      (2)   Possess a firearm knowing or having reasonable cause to believe
that the name of the manufacturer, model, manufacturer’s serial number, or
other mark of identification on the firearm has been changed, altered, removed,
or obliterated.
   (B)   (1)   Whoever violates division (A)(1) of this section is guilty of
defacing identification marks of a firearm. Except as otherwise provided in
this division, defacing identification marks of a firearm is a misdemeanor of
the first degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded
guilty to a violation of division (A)(1) of this section, defacing
identification marks of a firearm is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(2) of this section is guilty of
possessing a defaced firearm. Except as otherwise provided in this division,
possessing a defaced firearm is a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the
offender previously has been convicted of or pleaded guilty to a violation of
division (A)(2) of this section, possessing a defaced firearm is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to any firearm on which no
manufacturer’s serial number was inscribed at the time of its manufacture.
(R.C. § 2923.201)
CHAPTER 138: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
   
138.01   Definitions
   
138.02   Adult use cannabis control; limitations on conduct by individuals
   
138.03   Drug possession offenses
   
138.04   Possessing drug abuse instruments
   
138.05   Permitting drug abuse
   
138.06   Illegal cultivation of marihuana
   
138.07   Abusing harmful intoxicants
   
138.08   Illegal dispensing of drug samples
   
138.09   Federal prosecution bar to municipal prosecution
   
138.10   Nitrous oxide: improper dispensing or distribution; possession in a
motor vehicle
   
138.11   Laboratory report required
   
138.12   Counterfeit controlled substances
   
138.13   Use, possession, or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
138.14   Controlled substance or prescription labels
   
138.15   Possession, sale and disposal of hypodermics
   
138.16   Controlled substance schedules
   
138.17   Unlawful furnishing of prescription to enable persons to be issued
handicapped parking placards or license plates
   
138.18   Sale of pseudoephedrine
   
138.19   Sale of pure caffeine product
   
138.20   Sale of dextromethorphan
Statutory reference:
   Administration of epinephrine, exemption from prosecution, see R.C. §
2925.64
   Controlled substances, regulation of pharmacists and other professionals,
see R.C. Chapters 3719 and 4729
   Conviction of professionally licensed persons to be reported to licensing
board, see R.C. § 2925.38
   Criminal and civil forfeiture of property for felony drug abuse offenses,
see R.C. Chapter 2981
   Destruction of chemicals used to produce methamphetamine; preservation of
samples, see R.C. § 2925.52
   Tampering with drugs, felony offense, see R.C. § 2925.24
§ 138.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words,
terms and phrases and their derivatives used in this chapter which are not
defined in this section shall have the meanings given to them in the Ohio
Revised Code.
   ADMINISTER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   ADULTERATE. To cause a drug to be adulterated as described in R.C. §
3715.63.
   ALCOHOL AND DRUG ADDICTION SERVICES. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
5119.01.
   BULK AMOUNT. Of a controlled substance means any of the following:
      (1)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in
Schedule I, Schedule II, or Schedule III, with the exception of any controlled
substance analog, marihuana, cocaine, L.S.D., heroin, any fentanyl-related
compound, and hashish and except as provided in division (2), (5), or (6) of
this definition, whichever of the following is applicable:
         (a)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams or 25 unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I opiate or opium derivative;
         (b)   An amount equal to or exceeding ten grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of raw or gum
opium;
         (c)   An amount equal to or exceeding 30 grams or ten unit doses of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule I hallucinogen other than tetrahydrocannabinol or lysergic acid
amide, or a Schedule I stimulant or depressant;
         (d)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II opiate or opium
derivative;
         (e)   An amount equal to or exceeding five grams or ten unit doses of
a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount
of phencyclidine;
         (f)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the
maximum daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard
pharmaceutical reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule II stimulant that is in
a final dosage form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal
drug abuse control laws, as defined in this section, that is or contains any
amount of a Schedule II depressant substance or a Schedule II hallucinogenic
substance;
         (g)   An amount equal to or exceeding three grams of a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of a Schedule
II stimulant, or any of its salts or isomers, that is not in a final dosage
form manufactured by a person authorized by the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. §§ 301 et seq., as amended) and the federal drug abuse
control laws;
      (2)   An amount equal to or exceeding 120 grams or 30 times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III or IV substance other than an anabolic
steroid or a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (3)   An amount equal to or exceeding 20 grams or five times the maximum
daily dose in the usual dose range specified in a standard pharmaceutical
reference manual of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III opiate or opium derivative;
      (4)   An amount equal to or exceeding 250 milliliters or 250 grams of a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or contains any amount of
a Schedule V substance;
      (5)   An amount equal to or exceeding 200 solid dosage units, 16 grams,
or 16 milliliters of a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is or
contains any amount of a Schedule III anabolic steroid;
      (6)   For any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance that is a
combination of a fentanyl-related compound and any other compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
if the defendant is charged with a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 and the
sentencing provisions set forth in R.C. § 2925.11(C)(10)(b) and (C)(11) will
not apply regarding the defendant and the violation, the bulk amount of the
controlled substance for purposes of the violation is the amount specified in
division (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5) of this definition for the other Schedule
III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is combined with the
fentanyl-related compound.
   CERTIFIED GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE. A duly constituted and organized committee of
the Ohio State Bar Association or of one or more local bar associations of the
state that complies with the criteria set forth in Rule V, Section 6 of the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   COCAINE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A cocaine salt, isomer, or derivative, a salt of a cocaine isomer
or derivative, or the base form of cocaine.
      (2)   Coca leaves or a salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of coca
leaves, including ecgonine, a salt, isomer, or derivative of ecgonine, or a
salt of an isomer or derivative of ecgonine.
      (3)   A salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of a substance
identified in division (1) or (2) of this definition that is chemically
equivalent to or identical with any of those substances, except that the
substances shall not include decocainized coca leaves or extraction of coca
leaves if the extractions do not contain cocaine or ecgonine.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A JUVENILE. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a juvenile” if the offender commits the offense within 100 feet of
a juvenile or within the view of a juvenile, regardless of whether the offender
knows the age of the juvenile, whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed within 100 feet of or within view of the juvenile, or whether the
juvenile actually views the commission of the offense.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SCHOOL. An offense is “committed in the
vicinity of a school” if the offender commits the offense on school premises,
in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the boundaries of any school
premises, regardless of whether the offender knows the offense is being
committed on school premises, in a school building, or within 1,000 feet of the
boundaries of any school premises.
   COMMITTED IN THE VICINITY OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER OR A
RECOVERING ADDICT. An offense is “committed in the vicinity of a substance
addiction services provider or a recovering addict” if either of the following
apply:
      (1)   The offender commits the offense on the premises of a substance
addiction services provider’s facility, including a facility licensed prior to
June 29, 2019, under R.C. § 5119.391 to provide methadone treatment or an
opioid treatment program licensed on or after that date under R.C. § 5119.37,
or within 500 feet of the premises of a substance addiction services provider’s
facility and the offender knows or should know that the offense is being
committed within the vicinity of the substance addiction services provider’s
facility.
      (2)   The offender sells, offers to sell, delivers, or distributes the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog to a person who is
receiving treatment at the time of the commission of the offense, or received
treatment within 30 days prior to the commission of the offense, from a
substance addiction services provider and the offender knows that the person is
receiving or received that treatment.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE ANALOG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any drug that bears, or whose container or label bears, a
trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark used without authorization of
the owner of rights to the trademark, trade name, or identifying mark.
      (2)   Any unmarked or unlabeled substance that is represented to be a
controlled substance manufactured, processed, packed, or distributed by a
person other than the person that manufactured, processed, packed, or
distributed it.
      (3)   Any substance that is represented to be a controlled substance but
is not a controlled substance or is a different controlled substance.
      (4)   Any substance other than a controlled substance that a reasonable
person would believe to be a controlled substance because of its similarity in
shape, size, and color, or its markings, labeling, packaging, distribution, or
the price for which it is sold or offered for sale.
   CULTIVATE. Includes planting, watering, fertilizing or tilling.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DECEPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2913.01.
   DISCIPLINARY COUNSEL. The disciplinary counsel appointed by the Board of
Commissioners on Grievances and Discipline of the Ohio Supreme Court under the
Rules for the Government of the Bar of Ohio.
   DISPENSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DISTRIBUTE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   DRUG. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2913.02(A) that constitutes theft of drugs,
or any violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, 2925.04, 2925.041, 2925.05,
2925.06, 2925.11, 2925.12, 2925.13, 2925.22, 2925.23, 2925.24, 2925.31,
2925.32, 2925.36, or 2925.37.
      (2)   A violation of an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state or of the United States, that is substantially equivalent to
any section listed in division (1) of this definition.
      (3)   An offense under an existing or former law of a municipality, state
or any other state, or of the United States, of which planting, cultivating,
harvesting, processing, making, manufacturing, producing, shipping,
transporting, delivering, acquiring, possessing, storing, distributing,
dispensing, selling, inducing another to use, administering to another, using,
or otherwise dealing with a controlled substance is an element.
      (4)   A conspiracy to commit, attempt to commit, or complicity in
committing or attempting to commit, any offense under division (1), (2), or (3)
of this definition.
   DRUG OF ABUSE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   FELONY DRUG ABUSE OFFENSE. Any drug abuse offense that would constitute a
felony under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States.
   FENTANYL-RELATED COMPOUND. Any of the following:
      (1)   Fentanyl;
      (2)   Alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(alpha-methyl-beta-phenyl)ethyl-4-
piperidyl] propionanilide; 1-(1-methyl-2-phenylethyl)-4-(N-propanilido)
piperidine);
      (3)   Alpha-methylthiofentanyl (N-[1-methyl-2-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylpropanamide);
      (4)   Beta-hydroxyfentanyl (N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-phenethyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (5)   Beta-hydroxy-3-methylfentanyl (other name: N-[1-(2-hydroxy-2-
phenethyl)-3- methyl-4-piperidinyl]-N-phenylpropanamide);
      (6)   3-methylfentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-(2-phenylethyl)-4-piperidyl]-N-
phenylpropanamide);
      (7)   3-methylthiofentanyl (N-[3-methyl-1-[2-(thienyl)ethyl]-4-
piperidinyl]-– phenylpropanamide);
      (8)   Para-fluorofentanyl (N-(4-fluorophenyl)-N-[1-(2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]propanamide;
      (9)   Thiofentanyl (N-phenyl-N-[1-(2-thienyl)ethyl-4-piperidinyl]-
propanamide;
      (10)   Alfentanil;
      (11)   Carfentanil;
      (12)   Remifentanil;
      (13)   Sufentanil;
      (14)   Acetyl-alpha-methylfentanyl (N-[1-(1-methyl-2-phenethyl)-4-
piperidinyl]-N- phenylacetamide); and
      (15)   Any compound that meets all of the following fentanyl
pharmacophore requirements to bind at the mu receptor, as identified by a
report from an established forensic laboratory, including acetylfentanyl,
furanylfentanyl, valerylfentanyl, butyrylfentanyl, isobutyrylfentanyl, 4-
methoxybutyrylfentanyl, para-fluorobutyrylfentanyl, acrylfentanyl, and ortho-
fluorofentanyl:
         (a)   A chemical scaffold consisting of both of the following:
            1.   A five, six, or seven member ring structure containing a
nitrogen, whether or not further substituted;
            2.   An attached nitrogen to the ring, whether or not that nitrogen
is enclosed in a ring structure, including an attached aromatic ring or other
lipophilic group to that nitrogen.
         (b)   A polar functional group attached to the chemical scaffold,
including but not limited to a hydroxyl, ketone, amide, or ester;
         (c)   An alkyl or aryl substitution off the ring nitrogen of the
chemical scaffold; and
         (d)   The compound has not been approved for medical use by the United
States food and drug administration.
   HARMFUL INTOXICANT. Does not include beer or intoxicating liquor, but means
any of the following:
      (1)   Any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance the gas, fumes, or
vapor of which when inhaled can induce intoxication, excitement, giddiness,
irrational behavior, depression, stupefaction, paralysis, unconsciousness,
asphyxiation, or other harmful physiological effects, and includes but is not
limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Any volatile organic solvent, plastic cement, model cement,
fingernail polish remover, lacquer thinner, cleaning fluid, gasoline, or other
preparation containing a volatile organic solvent.
         (b)   Any aerosol propellant.
         (c)   Any fluorocarbon refrigerant.
         (d)   Any anesthetic gas.
      (2)   Gamma Butyrolactone;
      (3)   1,4 Butanediol.
   HASHISH.
      (1)   A resin or a preparation of a resin to which both of the following
apply:
         (a)   It is contained in or derived from any part of the plant of the
genus cannabis, whether in solid form or in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form.
         (b)   It has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of more than
0.3%.
      (2)   The term does not include a hemp byproduct in the possession of a
licensed hemp processor under R.C. Chapter 928, provided that the hemp
byproduct is being produced, stored, and disposed of in accordance with rules
adopted under R.C. § 928.03.
   HYPODERMIC. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   JUVENILE. A person under 18 years of age.
   LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the same
meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   L.S.D. Lysergic acid diethylamide.
   MAJOR DRUG OFFENDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANDATORY PRISON TERM. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2929.01.
   MANUFACTURE. To plant, cultivate, harvest, process, make, prepare, or
otherwise engage in any part of the production of a drug, by propagation,
extraction, chemical synthesis, or compounding, or any combination of the same,
and includes packaging, repackaging, labeling, and other activities incident to
production.
   MANUFACTURER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   MARIHUANA. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01, except that it does
not include hashish.
   METHAMPHETAMINE. Methamphetamine, any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of
methamphetamine, or any compound, mixture, preparation, or substance containing
methamphetamine or any salt, isomer, or salt of an isomer of methamphetamine.
   MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. Either of the following:
      (1)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it existed prior to July 1, 1996,
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance.
      (2)   A violation of R.C. § 2925.11 as it exists on and after July 1,
1996, or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, that is a misdemeanor
or a felony of the fifth degree.
   OFFICIAL WRITTEN ORDER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PERSON WITH A DRUG DEPENDENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.011.
   PHARMACIST. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   PHARMACY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   POSSESS or POSSESSION. Having control over a thing or substance but may not
be inferred solely from mere access to the thing or substance through ownership
or occupation of the premises upon which the thing or substance is found.
   PREMISES OF A SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER’S FACILITY. Means the
parcel of real property on which any substance addiction service provider’s
facility is situated.
   PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   PRESUMPTION FOR A PRISON TERM or PRESUMPTION THAT A PRISON TERM SHALL BE
IMPOSED. A presumption as described in R.C. § 2929.13(D) that a prison term is
a necessary sanction for a felony in order to comply with the purposes and
principles of sentencing under R.C. § 2929.11.
   PROFESSIONAL LICENSE. Any license, permit, certificate, registration,
qualification, admission, temporary license, temporary permit, temporary
certificate, or temporary registration that is described in R.C. § 2925.01(W)
(1) through (W)(37) and that qualifies a person as a professionally licensed
person.
   PROFESSIONALLY LICENSED PERSON. Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who has received a certificate or temporary certificate as
a certified public accountant or who has registered as a public accountant
under R.C. Chapter 4701 and who holds an Ohio permit issued under that chapter;
      (2)   A person who holds a certificate of qualification to practice
architecture issued or renewed and registered under R.C. Chapter 4703;
      (3)   A person who is registered as a landscape architect under R.C.
Chapter 4703 or who holds a permit as a landscape architect issued under that
chapter;
      (4)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4707;
      (5)    A person who has been issued a barber's license, barber
instructor's license, assistant barber instructor's license, or independent
contractor's license under R.C. Chapter 4709;
      (6)   A person licensed and regulated to engage in the business of a debt
pooling company by a legislative authority, under authority of R.C. Chapter
4710;
      (7)   A person who has been issued a cosmetologist's license, hair
designer's license, manicurist's license, esthetician's license, natural hair
stylist's license, advanced license to practice cosmetology, advanced license
to practice hair design, advanced license to practice manicuring, advanced
license to practice esthetics, advanced license to practice natural hair
styling, cosmetology instructor's license, hair design instructor's license,
manicurist instructor's license, esthetics instructor's license, natural hair
style instructor's license, independent contractor's license, or tanning
facility permit under R.C. Chapter 4713;
      (8)   A person who has been issued a license to practice dentistry, a
general anesthesia permit, a conscious sedation permit, a limited resident’s
license, a limited teaching license, a dental hygienist’s license, or a dental
hygienist’s teacher’s certificate under R.C. Chapter 4715;
      (9)   A person who has been issued an embalmer’s license, a funeral
director’s license, a funeral home license, or a crematory license, or who has
been registered for an embalmer’s or funeral director’s apprenticeship under
R.C. Chapter 4717;
      (10)   A person who has been licensed as a registered nurse or practical
nurse, or who has been issued a certificate for the practice of nurse-midwifery
under R.C. Chapter 4723;
      (11)   A person who has been licensed to practice optometry or to engage
in optical dispensing under R.C. Chapter 4725;
      (12)   A person licensed to act as a pawnbroker under R.C. Chapter 4727;
      (13)   A person licensed to act as a precious metals dealer under R.C.
Chapter 4728;
      (14)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a pharmacist or
pharmacy intern or registered under that chapter as a registered pharmacy
technician, certified pharmacy technician, or pharmacy technician trainee;
      (15)   A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 as a manufacturer of
dangerous drugs, outsourcing facility, third-party logistics provider,
repackager of dangerous drugs, wholesale distributor of dangerous drugs, or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
      (16)   A person who is authorized to practice as a physician assistant
under R.C. Chapter 4730;
      (17)   A person who has been issued a license to practice medicine and
surgery, osteopathic medicine and surgery, or podiatric medicine and surgery
under R.C. Chapter 4731 or has been issued a certificate to practice a limited
branch of medicine under that chapter;
      (18)   A person licensed as a psychologist, independent school
psychologist or school psychologist under R.C. Chapter 4732;
      (19)   A person registered to practice the profession of engineering or
surveying under R.C. Chapter 4733;
      (20)   A person who has been issued a license to practice chiropractic
under R.C. Chapter 4734;
      (21)   A person licensed to act as a real estate broker or real estate
salesperson under R.C. Chapter 4735;
      (22)   A person registered as a registered environmental health
specialist under R.C. Chapter 3776;
      (23)   A person licensed to operate or maintain a junkyard under R.C.
Chapter 4737;
      (24)   A person who has been issued a motor vehicle salvage dealer’s
license under R.C. Chapter 4738;
      (25)   A person who has been licensed to act as a steam engineer under
R.C. Chapter 4739;
      (26)   A person who has been issued a license or temporary permit to
practice veterinary medicine or any of its branches, or who is registered as a
graduate animal technician under R.C. Chapter 4741;
      (27)   A person who has been issued a hearing aid dealer’s or fitter’s
license or trainee permit under R.C. Chapter 4747;
      (28)   A person who has been issued a class A, class B, or class C
license or who has been registered as an investigator or security guard
employee under R.C. Chapter 4749;
      (29)   A person licensed to practice as a nursing home administrator
under R.C. Chapter 4751;
      (30)   A person licensed to practice as a speech-language pathologist or
audiologist under R.C. Chapter 4753;
      (31)   A person issued a license as an occupational therapist or physical
therapist under R.C. Chapter 4755;
      (32)   A person who is licensed as a licensed professional clinical
counselor, licensed professional counselor, social worker, independent social
worker, independent marriage and family therapist, or marriage and family
therapist, or registered as a social work assistant under R.C. Chapter 4757;
      (33)   A person issued a license to practice dietetics under R.C. Chapter
4759;
      (34)   A person who has been issued a license or limited permit to
practice respiratory therapy under R.C. Chapter 4761;
      (35)   A person who has been issued a real estate appraiser certificate
under R.C. Chapter 4763;
      (36)   A person who has been issued a home inspector license under R.C.
Chapter 4764;
      (37)   A person who has been admitted to the bar by order of the Ohio
Supreme Court in compliance with its prescribed and published rules.
   PUBLIC PREMISES. Any hotel, restaurant, tavern, store, arena, hall, or other
place of public accommodation, business, amusement, or resort.
   SALE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SAMPLE DRUG. A drug or pharmaceutical preparation that would be hazardous to
health or safety if used without the supervision of a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs, or a drug of abuse, and that, at
one time, had been placed in a container plainly marked as a sample by a
manufacturer.
   SCHEDULE I, SCHEDULE II, SCHEDULE III, SCHEDULE IV or SCHEDULE V. Have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
   SCHOOL. Any school operated by a board of education, any community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or any nonpublic school for which the
Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum standards under R.C. §
3301.07, whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or
training provided by the school is being conducted at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   SCHOOL BUILDING. Any building in which any of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training provided by a school is conducted,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted in the school building at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
   SCHOOL PREMISES. Either of the following:
      (1)   The parcel of real property on which any school is situated,
whether or not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training
provided by the school is being conducted on the premises at the time a
criminal offense is committed.
      (2)   Any other parcel of real property that is owned or leased by a
board of education of a school, the governing authority of a community school
established under R.C. Chapter 3314, or the governing body of a nonpublic
school for which the Director of Education and Workforce prescribes minimum
standards under R.C. § 3301.07 and on which some of the instruction,
extracurricular activities, or training of the school is conducted, whether or
not any instruction, extracurricular activities, or training provided by the
school is being conducted on the parcel of real property at the time a criminal
offense is committed.
   STANDARD PHARMACEUTICAL REFERENCE MANUAL. The current edition, with
cumulative changes if any, of references that are approved by the State Board
of Pharmacy.
   SUBSTANCE ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Means an agency, association,
corporation or other legal entity, individual, or program that provides one or
more of the following at a facility:
      (1)   Either alcohol addiction services, or drug addiction services, or
both such services that are certified by the Ohio Director of Mental Health and
Addiction Services under R.C. § 5119.36;
      (2)   Recovery supports that are related to either alcohol addiction
services, or drug addiction services, or both such services and paid for with
federal, state, or local funds administered by the Ohio Department of Mental
Health and Addiction Services or a board of alcohol, drug addiction, and mental
health services.
   UNIT DOSE. An amount or unit or a compound, mixture, or preparation
containing a controlled substance that is separately identifiable and in a form
that indicates that it is the amount or unit by which the controlled substance
is separately administered to or taken by an individual.
   WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
(R.C.§ 2925.01)
§ 138.02 ADULT USE CANNABIS CONTROL; LIMITATIONS ON CONDUCT BY INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780 and notwithstanding
any conflicting provision of this code or the Ohio Revised Code, an adult use
consumer, may do the following:
      (1)   Use adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Possess, transfer without remuneration to another adult consumer,
or transport adult use cannabis, subject to division (B) of this section; and
      (3)   Purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary per day in
amounts that do not exceed the possession limits set forth in division (B)(1)
of this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796:
      (1)   The amount of cannabis that may be possessed by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (2)   The amount of cannabis that may be transferred by an adult use
consumer without remuneration and not advertised or promoted to the public
shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
      (3)   The amount of cannabis that may be transported by an adult use
consumer shall not exceed:
         (a)   Two and one-half ounces of adult use cannabis in any form except
adult use extract; and
         (b)   Fifteen grams of adult use cannabis in the form of adult use
extract.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer shall not be subject to arrest, criminal prosecution, or civil penalty
for engaging in any of the activities authorized under R.C. Chapter 3780,
including:
      (1)   Obtaining, using, possessing, or transporting adult use cannabis;
      (2)   Performing conduct authorized under R.C. § 3780.29;
      (3)   Acquiring, possessing, using, purchasing, manufacturing, selling,
or transporting paraphernalia; and
      (4)   Assisting another adult use consumer, or allowing property to be
used, in any of the acts authorized by R.C. Chapter 3780.
   (D)   (1)   An individual is prohibited from operating a vehicle, motor
vehicle, streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft while
using adult use cannabis or while under the influence of adult use cannabis and
is subject to R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance
for any violation of this division.
      (2)   An individual is prohibited from smoking, vaporizing, or using any
other combustible adult use cannabis product while in a vehicle, motor vehicle,
streetcar, trackless trolley, bike, watercraft, or aircraft and is subject to
R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance for any
violation of this division.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, no individual under
21 years of age shall knowingly show or give false information concerning the
individual's name, age, or other identification for the purpose of purchasing
adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter
3780.
   (F)   Nothing in R.C. Chapter 3780 is intended to permit the transfer or
sale of adult use cannabis, with or without remuneration, to an individual
under 21 years of age, or to allow an individual under 21 years of age to
purchase, possess, use, process, transport, or cultivate cannabis except where
authorized by R.C. Chapter 3796.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used by an invitee of the
parent's child or the guardian's ward, if the invitee is under 21 years of age,
in a manner that constitutes a violation of R.C. Chapter 3780.
      (1)   A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted their
residence, any other private property under their control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under their control to be used in violation of R.C.
Chapter 3780 if they knowingly authorize or permit consumption of cannabis by
underage invitees.
      (2)   Where the residence or other property has an owner and a tenant or
lessee, the trier of fact may infer that the residence or other property is
occupied only by the tenant or lessee.
(R.C. § 3780.36)
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3796, R.C. § 2925.11
or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance shall apply when an adult use
consumer possesses an amount of cannabis greater than the limits set forth in
division (B)(1) of this section.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in R.C. Chapter 3780, an adult use
consumer who uses adult use cannabis in public areas, or who violates division
(D)(2) of this section as a passenger, is guilty of a minor misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   An individual under 21 years of age who knowingly shows or
gives false information concerning the individual's name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing or otherwise obtaining adult use
cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780 is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree. If, in committing a first
violation, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under
R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false
or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's
license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than $250 and not
more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more
than six months.
         (b)   On a second violation in which, for the second time, the
offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C. Chapter 3780
a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a false or fictitious
driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a driver's license issued
by any state that has been altered, the offender is guilty of a misdemeanor of
the first degree and shall be fined not less than $500 nor more than $1,000,
and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of not more than six months. The
court also may impose a class seven suspension of the offender's driver's or
commercial driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from
the range specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(7). The court, in lieu of suspending
the offender's temporary instruction permit, probationary driver's license, or
driver's license, instead may order the offender to perform a determinate
number of hours of community service, with the court determining the actual
number of hours and the nature of the community service the offender shall
perform.
         (c)   On a third or subsequent violation in which, for the third or
subsequent time, the offender presented to an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 a false, fictitious, or altered identification card, a
false or fictitious driver's license purportedly issued by any state, or a
driver's license issued by any state that has been altered, the offender is
guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree and shall be fined not less than
$500 nor more than $1,000, and may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment of
not more than six months. Except as provided in this division, the court also
may impose a class six suspension of the offender's driver's or commercial
driver's license or permit or nonresident operating privilege from the range
specified in R.C. § 4510.02(A)(6), and the court may order that the suspension
or denial remain in effect until the offender attains the age of 21 years. The
court, in lieu of suspending the offender's temporary instruction permit,
probationary driver's license, or driver's license, instead may order the
offender to perform a determinate number of hours of community service, with
the court determining the actual number of hours and the nature of the
community service the offender shall perform.
      (4)   An individual who is under 21 years of age and who solicits another
individual to purchase adult use cannabis from an adult use dispensary licensed
under R.C. Chapter 3780 is guilty of:
         (a)   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree; and
         (b)   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
second degree.
      (5)   An employee or agent of an adult use dispensary licensed under R.C.
Chapter 3780 who knowingly sells cannabis to an individual under 21 years of
age is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.10(A), or R.C. § 3780.29
(F), is guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03 and the
illegal manufacture of drugs under R.C. § 2925.04.
      (7)   Any individual who violates division (B)(2) or (B)(3) of this
section guilty of the illegal trafficking in drugs under R.C. § 2925.03.
      (8)   Any individual who violates R.C. § 3780.20(B) is guilty of illegal
dispensing of drug samples under R.C. § 2925.36 or a substantially equivalent
municipal ordinance.
      (9)   (a)   An individual who violates division (G) of this section is
guilty of:
            1.   For a first violation, a misdemeanor of the third degree; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent violation, a misdemeanor of the
first degree.
         (b)   If a violation of division (G) of this section directly or
indirectly results in great bodily harm or death to any individual, the
individual violating division (G) is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law.
(R.C. § 3780.99)
§ 138.03 DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly obtain, possess, or use a controlled
substance or a controlled substance analog.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to any of the following:
         (a)   Manufacturers, licensed health professionals authorized to
prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, and other persons whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
and 4741.
         (b)   If the offense involves an anabolic steroid, any person who is
conducting or participating in a research project involving the use of an
anabolic steroid if the project has been approved by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
         (c)   Any person who sells, offers for sale, prescribes, dispenses, or
administers for livestock or other nonhuman species an anabolic steroid that is
expressly intended for administration through implants to livestock or other
nonhuman species and approved for that purpose under the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, and is sold, offered for sale, prescribed, dispensed, or
administered for that purpose in accordance with that Act.
         (d)   Any person who obtained the controlled substance pursuant to a
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs if the prescription was issued for a legitimate medical purpose and not
altered, forged, or obtained through deception or commission of a theft
offense. As used in this division (B)(1)(d), “deception” and “theft offense”
have the same meanings as in R.C. § 2913.01.
      (2)   (a)   As used in division (B)(2) of this section:
            COMMUNITY ADDICTION SERVICES PROVIDER. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 5119.01.
            COMMUNITY CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. §
2929.01
            HEALTH CARE FACILITY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2919.16.
            MINOR DRUG POSSESSION OFFENSE. A violation of this section or R.C.
§ 2925.11 that is a misdemeanor or a felony of the fifth degree.
            PEACE OFFICER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2935.01.
            POST-RELEASE CONTROL SANCTION. Has the same meaning as in R.C. §
2967.28.
            PUBLIC AGENCY. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2930.01.
            QUALIFIED INDIVIDUAL. A person who is acting in good faith who
seeks or obtains medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a
drug overdose, a person who experiences a drug overdose and who seeks medical
assistance for that overdose or a person who is the subject of another person
seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that overdose as described in
division (B)(2)(b) of this section.
            SEEK OR OBTAIN MEDICAL ASSISTANCE. Includes, but is not limited to
making a 9-1-1 call, contacting in person or by telephone call an on-duty peace
officer, or transporting or presenting a person to a health care facility.
         (b)   Subject to division (B)(2)(e) of this section a qualified
individual shall not be arrested, charged, prosecuted, convicted or penalized
pursuant to this chapter for a minor drug possession offense or a violation of
R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1) or R.C. § 2925.141 if all of the following
apply:
            1.   The evidence of the obtaining, possession or use of the
controlled substance or controlled substance analog, drug abuse instruments or
drug paraphernalia that would be the basis of the offense was obtained as a
result of the qualified individual seeking the medical assistance or
experiencing an overdose and needing medical assistance;
            2.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, within 30 days
after seeking or obtaining the medical assistance, the qualified individual
seeks and obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment from a
community addiction services provider or a properly credentialed addiction
treatment professional; and
            3.   Subject to division (B)(2)(f) of this section, the qualified
individual who obtains a screening and receives a referral for treatment under
division (B)(2)(b)2. of this section, upon the request of any prosecuting
attorney, submits documentation to the prosecuting attorney that verifies that
the qualified individual satisfied the requirements of that division. The
documentation shall be limited to the date and time of the screening obtained
and referral received.
         (c)   If a person who is serving a community control sanction or is
under a sanction on post-release control acts pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of
this section, then R.C. § 2929.141(B), R.C. § 2929.15(B)(2), R.C. § 2929.25(D)
(3) or R.C. § 2967.28(F)(3) applies to the person with respect to any violation
of the sanction or post release control sanction based on a minor drug
possession offense, as defined in R.C. § 2925.11, or a violation of R.C. §
2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1) or R.C. § 2925.141.
         (d)   Nothing in division (B)(2)(b) of this section shall be construed
to do any of the following:
            1. Limit the admissibility of any evidence in connection with the
investigation or prosecution of a crime with regards to a defendant who does
not qualify for the protections of division (B)(2)(b) of this section or with
regards to any crime other than a minor drug possession offense or a violation
of R.C. § 2925.12, R.C. § 2925.14(C)(1), or R.C. § 2925.141 committed by a
person who qualifies for protection pursuant to division (B)(2)(b) of this
section;
            2.   Limit any seizure of evidence or contraband otherwise
permitted by law;
            3.   Limit or abridge the authority of a peace officer to detain or
take into custody a person in the course of an investigation or to effectuate
an arrest for any offense except as provided in that division; or
            4.   Limit, modify or remove any immunity from liability available
pursuant to law in effect prior to September 13, 2016 to any public agency or
to an employee of any public agency.
         (e)   Division (B)(2)(b) of this section does not apply to any person
who twice previously has been granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b) of
this section. No person shall be granted an immunity under division (B)(2)(b)
of this section more than two times.
         (f)   Nothing in this section shall compel any qualified individual to
disclose protected health information in a way that conflicts with the
requirements of the “Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of
1996,” 104 Pub. L. No. 191, 110 Stat. 2021, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1320d et seq., as
amended, and regulations promulgated by the United States Department of Health
and Human Services to implement the act or the requirements of 42 C.F.R. Part
2.
   (C)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of one of the
following:
      (1)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana or hashish, whoever violates division (A) of this
section is guilty of a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of drugs.
The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(2)(b) of this
section, possession of drugs is a misdemeanor of the first degree or, if the
offender previously has been convicted of a drug abuse offense, a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds the bulk
amount, possession of drugs is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the violation is marihuana or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing marihuana other than hashish,
whoever violates division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of
marihuana. The penalty for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3)(b) or (C)(3)(c)
of this section, possession of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 100 grams
but is less than 200 grams, possession of marihuana is a misdemeanor of the
fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
possession of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state
law.
      (4)   If the drug involved in the violation is hashish or a compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance containing hashish, whoever violates
division (A) of this section is guilty of possession of hashish. The penalty
for the offense shall be determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(4)(b) or (C)(4)(c)
of this section, possession of hashish is a minor misdemeanor.
         (b)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds five grams
but is less than ten grams of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds one
gram but is less than two grams of hashish in a liquid concentrate, liquid
extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of hashish is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
         (c)   If the amount of the drug involved equals or exceeds ten grams
of hashish in a solid form or equals or exceeds two grams of hashish in a
liquid concentrate, liquid extract, or liquid distillate form, possession of
hashish is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (5)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and marihuana, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of marihuana and shall be
punished as provided in division (C)(3) of this section. Except as otherwise
provided in division (C)(5)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of
possession of a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall
not be charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
      (6)   If the drug involved in the violation is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance that is a combination of a fentanyl-related compound
and any Schedule III, Schedule IV, or Schedule V controlled substance that is
not a fentanyl-related compound, one of the following applies:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(6)(b) of this
section, the offender is guilty of possession of drugs and shall be punished as
provided in division (C)(2) of this section. Except as otherwise provided in
division (C)(6)(b) of this section, the offender is not guilty of possession of
a fentanyl-related compound under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) and shall not be
charged with, convicted of, or punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11) for
possession of a fentanyl-related compound.
         (b)   If the offender knows or has reason to know that the compound,
mixture, preparation, or substance that is the drug involved contains a
fentanyl-related compound, the offender is guilty of possession of a fentanyl-
related compound and shall be punished under R.C. § 2925.11(C)(11).
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
   (E)   (1)   In addition to any prison term or jail term authorized or
required by division (C) of this section and R.C. §§ 2929.13, 2929.14, 2929.22,
2929.24, and 2929.25, or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, and
in addition to any other sanction that is imposed for the offense under this
section, R.C. §§ 2929.11 through 2929.18, or R.C. §§ 2929.21 through 2929.28,
or any substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, the court that sentences
an offender who is convicted of or pleads guilty to a violation of division (A)
of this section may suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or permit for not more than five years. However, if the offender
pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a
substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another state or the
United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the violation,
the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or permit for not more than five years.
      (2)   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, in addition to
any other sanction imposed for a violation of this section, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
   (F)   (1)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
      (2)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (F) of this section, the
sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.11)
Statutory reference:
   Felony drug possession offenses, see R.C. § 2925.11(C)
§ 138.04 POSSESSING DRUG ABUSE INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make, obtain, possess, or use any
instrument, article, or thing the customary and primary purpose of which is for
the administration or use of a dangerous drug, other than marihuana, when the
instrument involved is a hypodermic or syringe, whether or not of crude or
extemporized manufacture or assembly, and the instrument, article, or thing
involved has been used by the offender to unlawfully administer or use a
dangerous drug, other than marihuana, or to prepare a dangerous drug, other
than marihuana, for unlawful administration or use.
   (B)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct was in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719,
4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
      (2)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this section when a person seeks or obtains medical assistance for
another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person experiences a drug
overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose or a person is the
subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance for that
overdose.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of possessing drug abuse
instruments, a misdemeanor of the second degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, violation of this section is a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (D)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.12)
§ 138.05 PERMITTING DRUG ABUSE.
   (A)   No person who is the owner, operator, or person in charge of a
locomotive, watercraft, aircraft, or other vehicle, as defined in R.C. §
4501.01, shall knowingly permit the vehicle to be used for the commission of a
felony drug abuse offense.
   (B)   No person, who is the owner, lessee, or occupant, or who has custody,
control, or supervision of premises, or real estate, including vacant land,
shall knowingly permit his or her premises, or real estate, including vacant
land, to be used for the commission of a felony drug abuse offense by another
person.
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of permitting drug abuse.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (C)(2) of this section, permitting
drug abuse is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (2)   Permitting drug abuse is a felony to be prosecuted under
appropriate state law if the felony drug abuse offense in question is a
violation of R.C. § 2925.02, 2925.03, or 2925.04, or if the felony drug abuse
offense in question is a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 and the offender had
actual knowledge, at the time the offender permitted the vehicle, premises, or
real estate to be used as described in division (A) or (B) of this section,
that the person who assembled or possessed the chemicals in question in
violation of R.C. § 2925.041 had assembled or possessed them with the intent to
manufacture a controlled substance in Schedule I or Schedule II in violation of
R.C. § 2925.04.
   (D)   Any premises or real estate that is permitted to be used in violation
of division (B) of this section constitutes a nuisance subject to abatement
pursuant to R.C. Chapter 3767.
(R.C. § 2925.13(A) - (C), (F))
§ 138.06 ILLEGAL CULTIVATION OF MARIHUANA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly cultivate marihuana.
   (B)   This section does not apply to any person listed in R.C. § 2925.03(B)
(1), (B)(2) or (B)(3), or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance, to
the extent and under the circumstances described in that division.
   (C)   Whoever commits a violation of division (A) of this section is guilty
of illegal cultivation of marihuana.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in the following divisions, illegal
cultivation of marihuana is a minor misdemeanor or, if the offense was
committed in the vicinity of a school or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (2)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 100 grams but
is less than 200 grams, illegal cultivation of marihuana is a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree or, if the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school
or in the vicinity of a juvenile, a misdemeanor of the third degree.
      (3)   If the amount of marihuana involved equals or exceeds 200 grams,
illegal cultivation of marihuana is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate
state law.
   (D)   Arrest or conviction for a minor misdemeanor violation of this section
does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the person so
arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s criminal
record, including any inquiries contained in any application for employment,
license, or other right or privilege, or made in connection with the person’s
appearance as a witness.
(R.C. § 2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Illegal manufacturing of controlled substances, felony, see R.C. § 2925.04
   Sale or use of drugs not approved by Food and Drug Administration, felony,
see R.C. § 2925.09
§ 138.07 ABUSING HARMFUL INTOXICANTS.
   (A)   Except for lawful research, clinical, medical, dental, or veterinary
purposes, no person, with purpose to induce intoxication or similar
physiological effects, shall obtain, possess, or use a harmful intoxicant.
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of abusing harmful
intoxicants, a misdemeanor of the first degree. If the offender previously has
been convicted of a drug abuse offense, abusing harmful intoxicants is a felony
to be prosecuted under appropriate state law.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to the September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (C)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.31)
§ 138.08 ILLEGAL DISPENSING OF DRUG SAMPLES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly furnish a sample drug to another person.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section does not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies, licensed health professionals
authorized to prescribe drugs, and other persons whose conduct is in accordance
with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715, 4723, 4725, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741.
   (C)   (1)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of illegal dispensing of
drug samples.
      (2)   If the drug involved in the offense is a compound, mixture,
preparation, or substance included in Schedule I or Schedule II, with the
exception of marihuana, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a felony to be
prosecuted under appropriate state law.
      (3)   If the drug involved in the offense is a dangerous drug or a
compound, mixture, preparation, or substance included in Schedule III, Schedule
IV or Schedule V, or is marihuana, the penalty for the offense shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in the following division, illegal
dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor of the second degree.
         (b)   If the offense was committed in the vicinity of a school or in
the vicinity of a juvenile, illegal dispensing of drug samples is a misdemeanor
of the first degree.
(R.C. § 2925.36(A) - (C))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 2925.36(C)(2)
§ 138.09 FEDERAL PROSECUTION BAR TO MUNICIPAL PROSECUTION.
   No person shall be prosecuted for a violation of this chapter if the person
has been acquitted or convicted under the federal drug abuse control laws of
the same act or omission which, it is alleged, constitutes a violation of this
chapter.
(R.C. §§ 2925.50, 3719.19)
§ 138.10 NITROUS OXIDE: IMPROPER DISPENSING OR DISTRIBUTION; POSSESSION IN A
MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   Improper dispensing or distribution.
      (1)   No person who dispenses or distributes nitrous oxide in cartridges
shall fail to comply with either of the following:
         (a)   The record-keeping requirements established under division (A)
(3) of this section.
         (b)   The labeling and transaction identification requirements
established under division (A)(4) of this section.
      (2)   Whoever violates division (A)(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) of this section is
guilty of improperly dispensing or distributing nitrous oxide, a misdemeanor of
the fourth degree.
      (3)   Beginning July 1, 2001, a person who dispenses or distributes
nitrous oxide shall record each transaction involving the dispensing or
distribution of the nitrous oxide on a separate card. The person shall require
the purchaser to sign the card and provide a complete residence address. The
person dispensing or distributing the nitrous oxide shall sign and date the
card. The person shall retain the card recording a transaction for one year
from the date of the transaction. The person shall maintain the cards at the
person’s business address and make them available during normal business hours
for inspection and copying by officers or employees of the State Board of
Pharmacy or of other law enforcement agencies that are authorized to
investigate violations of this code, R.C. Chapters 2925, 3719, or 4729, or
federal drug abuse control laws. The cards used to record each transaction
shall inform the purchaser of the following:
         (a)   That nitrous oxide cartridges are to be used only for purposes
of preparing food;
         (b)   That inhalation of nitrous oxide can have dangerous health
effects; and
         (c)   That it is a violation of state law to distribute or dispense
cartridges of nitrous oxide to any person under age 21, punishable as a felony
of the fifth degree.
      (4)   (a)   Each cartridge of nitrous oxide dispensed or distributed in
this municipality shall bear the following printed warning: “Nitrous oxide
cartridges are to be used only for purposes of preparing food. Nitrous oxide
cartridges may not be sold to persons under age 21. Do not inhale contents.
Misuse can be dangerous to your health.”
         (b)   Each time a person dispenses or distributes one or more
cartridges of nitrous oxide, the person shall mark the packaging containing the
cartridges with a label or other device that identifies the person who
dispensed or distributed the nitrous oxide and the person’s business address.
(R.C. § 2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G))
   (B)   Possession in a motor vehicle.
      (1)   As used in this section, MOTOR VEHICLE, STREET and HIGHWAY have the
same meaning as in R.C. § 4511.01.
      (2)   Unless authorized by this code or by state law, no person shall
possess an open cartridge of nitrous oxide in either of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   While operating or being a passenger in or on a motor vehicle on
a street, highway, or other public or private property open to the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic or parking.
         (b)   While being in or on a stationary motor vehicle on a street,
highway, or other public or private property open to the public for purposes of
vehicular traffic or parking.
      (3)   Whoever violates this division (B) is guilty of possessing nitrous
oxide in a motor vehicle, a misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (4)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for
possessing nitrous oxide in a motor vehicle, the court may suspend for not more
than five years the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
permit.
(R.C. § 2925.33)
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking in harmful intoxicants, see R.C. § 2925.32
§ 138.11 LABORATORY REPORT REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   In any criminal prosecution for a violation of this chapter or
R.C. Chapters 2925 or 3719, a laboratory report from the Bureau of Criminal
Identification and Investigation or a laboratory operated by another law
enforcement agency, or a laboratory established by or under the authority of an
institution of higher education that has its main campus in this state and that
is accredited by the Association of American Universities or the North Central
Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools, primarily for the purpose of
providing scientific service to law enforcement agencies, and signed by the
person performing the analysis, stating that the substance that is the basis of
the alleged offense has been weighed and analyzed and stating the findings as
to the content, weight, and identity of the substance and that it contains any
amount of a controlled substance and the number and description of unit
dosages, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and weight or the
existence and number of unit dosages of the substance. In any criminal
prosecution for a violation of R.C. § 2925.041 or a violation of this chapter,
R.C. Chapter 2925 or R.C. Chapter 3719 that is based on the possession of
chemicals sufficient to produce a compound, mixture, preparation, or substance
included in Schedule I, II, III, IV, or V, a laboratory report from the Bureau
or from any laboratory that is operated or established as described in this
division that is signed by the person performing the analysis, stating that the
substances that are the basis of the alleged offense have been weighed and
analyzed and stating the findings as to the content, weight, and identity of
each of the substances, is prima facie evidence of the content, identity, and
weight of the substances.
      (2)   Attached to that report shall be a copy of a notarized statement by
the signer of the report giving the name of the signer and stating that the
signer is an employee of the laboratory issuing the report and that performing
the analysis is a part of the signer’s regular duties, and giving an outline of
the signer’s education, training, and experience for performing an analysis of
materials included under this section. The signer shall attest that
scientifically accepted tests were performed with due caution, and that the
evidence was handled in accordance with established and accepted procedures
while in the custody of the laboratory.
   (B)   The prosecuting attorney shall serve a copy of the report on the
attorney of record for the accused, or on the accused if the accused has no
attorney, prior to any proceeding in which the report is to be used against the
accused other than at a preliminary hearing or grand jury proceeding where the
report may be used without having been previously served upon the accused.
   (C)   The report shall not be prima facie evidence of the contents,
identity, and weight or the existence and number of unit dosages of the
substance if the accused or the accused’s attorney demands the testimony of the
person signing the report, by serving the demand upon the prosecuting attorney,
within seven days from the accused or the accused’s attorney’s receipt of the
report. The time may be extended by a trial judge in the interests of justice.
   (D)   Any report issued for use under this section shall contain notice of
the right of the accused to demand, and the manner in which the accused shall
demand, the testimony of the person signing the report.
   (E)   Any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C.
Chapters 2925 or 3719 is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a portion of the substance that is, or of each of the
substances that are, the basis of the alleged violation preserved for the
benefit of independent analysis performed by a laboratory analyst employed by
the accused person, or, if the accused is indigent, by a qualified laboratory
analyst appointed by the court. Such portion shall be a representative sample
of the entire substance that is, or of each of the substances that are, the
basis of the alleged violation and shall be of sufficient size, in the opinion
of the court, to permit the accused’s analyst to make a thorough scientific
analysis concerning the identity of the substance or substances. The
prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s analyst with the sample
portion at least 14 days prior to trial, unless the trial is to be held in a
court not of record or unless the accused person is charged with a minor
misdemeanor, in which case the prosecuting attorney shall provide the accused’s
analyst with the sample portion at least three days prior to trial. If the
prosecuting attorney determines that such a sample portion cannot be preserved
and given to the accused’s analyst, the prosecuting attorney shall so inform
the accused person, or the accused’s attorney. In such a circumstance, the
accused person is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have the accused’s privately employed or court appointed analyst
present at an analysis of the substance that is, or the substances that are,
the basis of the alleged violation, and, upon further written request, to
receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the analysis
and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at conclusions, findings, or
opinions concerning the identity of the substance or substances subject to the
analysis.
   (F)   In addition to the rights provided under division (E) of this section,
any person who is accused of a violation of this chapter or R.C. Chapters 2925
or 3719 that involves a bulk amount of a controlled substance, or any multiple
thereof, or who is accused of a violation of R.C. § 2925.11 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance, other than a minor misdemeanor violation, that
involves marihuana, is entitled, upon written request made to the prosecuting
attorney, to have a laboratory analyst of the accused’s choice, or, if the
accused is indigent, a qualified laboratory analyst appointed by the court,
present at a measurement or weighing of the substance that is the basis of the
alleged violation. Also, the accused person is entitled, upon further written
request, to receive copies of all recorded scientific data that result from the
measurement or weighing and that can be used by an analyst in arriving at
conclusions, findings, or opinions concerning the weight, volume, or number of
unit doses of the substance subject to the measurement or weighing.
(R.C. § 2925.51)
   (G)   In addition to the financial sanctions authorized or required under
R.C. §§ 2929.18 and 2929.28 and to any costs otherwise authorized or required
under any provision of law, the court imposing sentence upon an offender who is
convicted of or pleads guilty to a drug abuse offense may order the offender to
pay to the state, municipal, or county law enforcement agencies that handled
the investigation and prosecution all of the costs that the state, municipal
corporation, or county reasonably incurred in having tests performed under this
section or R.C. § 2925.51 or in any other manner on any substance that was the
basis of, or involved in, the offense to determine whether the substance
contained any amount of a controlled substance if the results of the tests
indicate that the substance tested contained any controlled substance. No court
shall order an offender under this section to pay the costs of tests performed
on a substance if the results of the tests do not indicate that the substance
tested contained any controlled substance. The court shall hold a hearing to
determine the amount of costs to be imposed under this section. The court may
hold the hearing as part of the sentencing hearing for the offender.
(R.C. § 2925.511)
§ 138.12 COUNTERFEIT CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly possess any counterfeit controlled
substance.
   (B)   Whoever violates division (A) of this section shall be guilty of
possession of counterfeit controlled substances, a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. § 2925.37(A), (G))
Statutory reference:
   Trafficking and other felony counterfeit controlled substance offenses, see
R.C. § 2925.37(H) - (M)
§ 138.13 USE, POSSESSION, OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   As used in this section, DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means any equipment,
product, or material of any kind that is used by the offender, intended by the
offender for use, or designed for use, in propagating, cultivating, growing,
harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing,
preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the
human body, a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. The term
includes but is not limited to any of the following equipment, products, or
materials that are used by the offender, intended by the offender for use, or
designed by the offender for use, in any of the following manners:
      (1)   A kit for propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting any
species of a plant that is a controlled substance or from which a controlled
substance can be derived.
      (2)   A kit for manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing,
processing, or preparing a controlled substance.
      (3)   Any object, instrument, or device for manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing methamphetamine.
      (4)   An isomerization device for increasing the potency of any species
of a plant that is a controlled substance.
      (5)   Testing equipment for identifying, or analyzing the strength,
effectiveness or purity of, a controlled substance, except for those exempted
in division (D)(4) of this section.
      (6)   A scale or balance for weighing or measuring a controlled
substance.
      (7)   A diluent or adulterant, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, or lactose, for cutting a controlled substance.
      (8)   A separation gin or sifter for removing twigs and seeds from, or
otherwise cleaning or refining, marihuana.
      (9)   A blender, bowl, container, spoon, or mixing device for compounding
a controlled substance.
      (10)   A capsule, balloon, envelope, or container for packaging small
quantities of a controlled substance.
      (11)   A container or device for storing or concealing a controlled
substance.
      (12)   A hypodermic syringe, needle, or instrument for parenterally
injecting a controlled substance into the human body.
      (13)   An object, instrument, or device for ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body, marihuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil, such as a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or
ceramic pipe, with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or
punctured metal bowl; water pipe; carburetion tube or device; smoking or
carburetion mask; roach clip or similar object used to hold burning material,
such as a marihuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand; miniature cocaine spoon, or cocaine vial; chamber pipe;
carburetor pipe; electric pipe; air driver pipe; chillum; bong; or ice pipe or
chiller.
   (B)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, the following:
      (1)   Any statement by the owner or by anyone in control of the
equipment, product, or material, concerning its use.
      (2)   The proximity in time or space of the equipment, product, or
material, or of the act relating to the equipment, product, or material, to a
violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter 2925.
      (3)   The proximity of the equipment, product, or material to any
controlled substance.
      (4)   The existence of any residue of a controlled substance on the
equipment, product, or material.
      (5)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control, of the equipment, product, or material, to deliver it to any
person whom he or she knows intends to use the equipment, product, or material
to facilitate a violation of any provision of this chapter or R.C. Chapter
2925. A finding that the owner or anyone in control of the equipment, product,
or material is not guilty of a violation of any other provision of this chapter
or R.C. Chapter 2925 does not prevent a finding that the equipment, product, or
material was intended or designed by the offender for use as drug
paraphernalia.
      (6)   Any oral or written instruction provided with the equipment,
product, or material concerning its use.
      (7)   Any descriptive material accompanying the equipment, product, or
material and explaining or depicting its use.
      (8)   National or local advertising concerning the use of the equipment,
product, or material.
      (9)   The manner and circumstances in which the equipment, product, or
material is displayed for sale.
      (10)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of the sales of the
equipment, product, or material to the total sales of the business enterprise.
      (11)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses of the equipment,
product, or material in the community.
      (12)   Expert testimony concerning the use of the equipment, product, or
material.
   (C)   (1)   Subject to divisions (D)(2), (D)(3) and (D)(4) of this section,
no person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, drug
paraphernalia.
      (2)   No person shall knowingly sell, or possess or manufacture with
purpose to sell, drug paraphernalia, if he or she knows or reasonably should
know that the equipment, product, or material will be used as drug
paraphernalia.
      (3)   No person shall place an advertisement in any newspaper, magazine,
handbill, or other publication that is published and printed and circulates
primarily within this state, if he or she knows that the purpose of the
advertisement is to promote the illegal sale in this municipality or in this
state of the equipment, product, or material that the offender intended or
designed for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (D)   (1)   This section does not apply to manufacturers, licensed health
professionals authorized to prescribe drugs, pharmacists, owners of pharmacies,
and other persons whose conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapters 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, and 4741. This section shall not be construed to
prohibit the possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. §
3719.172.
      (2)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a
product, or material of any kind that is used by the person, intended by the
person for use, or designed for use in storing, containing, concealing,
injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body
marihuana.
      (3)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of division (C)(1) of this section when a person seeks or obtains
medical assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a
person experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that
overdose or a person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining
medical assistance for that overdose.
      (4)   Division (C)(1) of this section does not apply to a person’s use,
or possession with purpose to use, any drug testing strips to determine the
presence of fentanyl or a fentanyl-related compound.
   (E)   Notwithstanding R.C. Chapter 2981, any drug paraphernalia that was
used, possessed, sold, or manufactured in violation of this section shall be
seized, after a conviction for that violation, shall be forfeited, and upon
forfeiture shall be disposed of pursuant to R.C. § 2981.12(B).
   (F)   (1)   Whoever violates division (C)(1) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the fourth
degree.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) of this section, whoever
violates division (C)(2) of this section is guilty of dealing in drug
paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
      (3)   Whoever violates division (C)(2) of this section by selling drug
paraphernalia to a juvenile is guilty of selling drug paraphernalia to
juveniles, a misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (4)   Whoever violates division (C)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal advertising of drug paraphernalia, a misdemeanor of the second degree.
   (G)   (1)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender for a
violation of this section, the court may suspend for not more than five years
the offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit. However, if
the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or the law of another
state or the United States arising out of the same set of circumstances as the
violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or permit for not more than five years. If the offender is a
professionally licensed person, in addition to any other sanction imposed for a
violation of this section, the court immediately shall comply with R.C. §
2925.38.
      (2)   (a)   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under this section
prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the sentencing court
requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an offender who pleaded
guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially
equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another state or the United States
that arose out of the same set of circumstances as the violation for which the
offender’s license or permit was suspended under this section shall not file
such a motion.
         (b)   Upon the filing of a motion under division (G)(2) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.14)
   (H)   Illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   As used in this division (H), DRUG PARAPHERNALIA has the same
meaning as in division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In determining if any equipment, product, or material is drug
paraphernalia, a court or law enforcement officer shall consider, in addition
to other relevant factors, all factors identified in division (B) of this
section.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly use, or possess with purpose to use, any
drug paraphernalia that is equipment, a product, or material of any kind that
is used by the person, intended by the person for use, or designed for use in
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing into the human body marihuana.
      (4)   This division (H) does not apply to any person identified in
division (D)(1) of this section, and it shall not be construed to prohibit the
possession or use of a hypodermic as authorized by R.C. § 3719.172.
      (5)   (a)   Division (E) of this section applies with respect to any drug
paraphernalia that was used or possessed in violation of division (H) of this
section.
         (b)   Division (B)(2) of R.C. § 2925.11 applies with respect to a
violation of this division (H) when a person seeks or obtains medical
assistance for another person who is experiencing a drug overdose, a person
experiences a drug overdose and seeks medical assistance for that overdose or a
person is the subject of another person seeking or obtaining medical assistance
for that overdose.
      (6)   (a)   Whoever violates division (H)(3) of this section is guilty of
illegal use or possession of marihuana drug paraphernalia, a minor misdemeanor.
         (b) Arrest or conviction for a violation of division (H)(3) of this
section does not constitute a criminal record and need not be reported by the
person so arrested or convicted in response to any inquiries about the person’s
criminal record, including any inquiries contained in any application for
employment, license or other right or privilege or made in connection with the
person’s appearance as a witness.
      (7)   (a)   In addition to any other sanction imposed upon an offender
for a violation of division (H) of this section, the court shall do the
following, if applicable:
            1.   If the offender pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a
violation of R.C. § 4511.19 or a substantially similar municipal ordinance or
the law of another state or the United States arising out of the same set of
circumstances as the violation, the court shall suspend the offender’s driver’s
or commercial driver’s license or permit for not more than five years.
            2.   If the offender is a professionally licensed person, the court
immediately shall comply with R.C. § 2925.38.
         (b)   1.   Any offender who received a mandatory suspension of the
offender’s driver’s or commercial driver’s license or permit under division (H)
of this section prior to September 13, 2016 may file a motion with the
sentencing court requesting the termination of the suspension. However, an
offender who pleaded guilty to or was convicted of a violation of R.C. §
4511.19 or a substantially equivalent municipal ordinance or law of another
state or the United States that arose out of the same set of circumstances as
the violation for which the offender’s license or permit was suspended under
division (H) of this section shall not file such a motion.
            2.   Upon the filing of a motion under division (H)(7)(b) of this
section, the sentencing court, in its discretion, may terminate the suspension.
(R.C. § 2925.141)
§ 138.14 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE OR PRESCRIPTION LABELS.
   (A)   Whenever a manufacturer sells a controlled substance, and whenever a
wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility sells a controlled substance in
a package the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility has prepared, the
manufacturer or the wholesaler, repackager, or outsourcing facility, as the
case may be, shall securely affix to each package in which the controlled
substance is contained a label showing in legible English the name and address
of the vendor and the quantity, kind, and form of controlled substance
contained therein. No person, except a pharmacist for the purpose of dispensing
a controlled substance upon a prescription shall alter, deface, or remove any
label so affixed. As used in this division, “repackager” and “outsourcing
facility” have the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
   (B)   No person shall alter, deface or remove any label affixed pursuant to
R.C. § 3719.08 as long as any of the original contents remain.
(R.C. § 3719.08(A), (E))
   (C)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree. If the offender previously has been convicted of a violation of this
section, or R.C. § 3719.07 or 3719.08, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
this section is a felony to be prosecuted under appropriate state law. If the
violation involves the sale, offer to sell, or possession of a Schedule I or II
controlled substance, with the exception of marihuana, and if the offender, as
a result of the violation, is a major drug offender, then R.C. § 3719.99(D)
applies.
(R.C. § 3719.99(C))
§ 138.15 POSSESSION, SALE AND DISPOSAL OF HYPODERMICS.
   (A)   Possession of a hypodermic is authorized for the following:
      (1)   A manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in hypodermics, or
medication packaged in hypodermics, and any authorized agent of employee of
that manufacturer, distributor or dealer, in the regular course of business;
      (2)   A terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, in the regular course of
business;
      (3)   A person authorized to administer injections, in the regular course
of the person’s profession or employment;
      (4)   A person, when the hypodermic in his possession was lawfully
obtained and is kept and used for the purpose of self-administration of insulin
or other drug prescribed for the treatment of disease by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs;
      (5)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for legal research, clinical,
educational or medicinal purposes;
      (6)   A farmer, for the lawful administration of a drug to an animal;
      (7)   A person whose use of a hypodermic is for lawful professional,
mechanical, trade or craft purposes.
   (B)   No manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, hypodermics or
medication packaged in hypodermics, or their authorized agents or employees,
and no terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, shall display any hypodermic
for sale. No person authorized to possess a hypodermic pursuant to division (A)
of this section shall negligently fail to take reasonable precautions to
prevent any hypodermic in the person’s possession from theft or acquisition by
any unauthorized person.
(R.C. § 3719.172(A), (B))
   (C)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree. If the offender previously has been convicted
of a violation of division (B) of this section, R.C. § 3719.05, 3719.06,
3719.13, 3719.172(B), or 3719.31, or a drug abuse offense, a violation of
division (B) of this section is a misdemeanor of the first degree.
(R.C. § 3719.99(E))
Statutory reference:
   Felony offenses, see R.C. § 3719.172(C) and (D)
§ 138.16 CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE SCHEDULES.
   Controlled Substance Schedules I, II, III, IV, and V, as established in R.C.
§ 3719.41 and amended by R.C. §§ 3719.43 and 3719.44, are hereby adopted by
reference, and shall be treated as if set forth in full herein.
§ 138.17 UNLAWFUL FURNISHING OF PRESCRIPTION TO ENABLE PERSONS TO BE ISSUED
HANDICAPPED PARKING PLACARDS OR LICENSE PLATES.
   (A)   No physician or chiropractor shall do either of the following:
      (1)    Furnish a person with a prescription in order to enable the person
to be issued a standard removable windshield placard, temporary removable
windshield placard, permanent removable windshield placard, or license plates
under R.C. § 4503.44, knowing that the person does not meet any of the criteria
contained in R.C. § 4503.44(A)(1).
      (2)   Furnish a person with a prescription described in division (A)(1)
of this section and knowingly misstate on the prescription the length of time
the physician or chiropractor expects the person to have the disability that
limits or impairs the person’s ability to walk in order to enable the person to
retain a placard issued under R.C. § 4503.44 for a period of time longer than
that which would be estimated by a similar practitioner under the same or
similar circumstances.
(R.C. §§ 4731.481, 4734.161)
   (B)   Whoever violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor of the first
degree.
(R.C. §§ 4731.99(F), 4734.99(B))
Cross-reference:
    Parking privileges for persons with disabilities, see §
76.05
§ 138.18 SALE OF PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Unlawful purchases.
      (1)   As used in divisions (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meaning as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
      (2)   (a)   1.   No individual shall knowingly purchase, receive, or
otherwise acquire an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
that is greater than either of the following unless the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product is dispensed by a pharmacist pursuant to a valid
prescription issued by a licensed health professional authorized to prescribe
drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist and the licensed health professional
authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715,
4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The limits specified in divisions (A)(2)(a)1.a. and (A)(2)
(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine or
base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The limits do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   It is not a violation of division (B)(1) of this section for an
individual to receive or accept more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product specified in division (A)(2)(a)1.a. or (A)(2)(a)1.b. of
this section if the individual is an employee of a retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product
or ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   (a)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly purchase,
receive, or otherwise acquire a pseudoephedrine product, or ephedrine product
unless the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product is dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs and the conduct of the pharmacist
and the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
         (b)   Division (A)(3)(a) of this section does not apply to an
individual under 18 years of age who purchases, receives, or otherwise acquires
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product from any of the following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to that individual and whose conduct is in
accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of that individual who provides the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person, as authorized by that individual’s parent or
guardian, who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides the pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            4.   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs who
provides the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to that individual if
the individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs and the individual receives or accepts from the retailer or
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs the pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product in a sealed container in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (4)   No individual under 18 years of age shall knowingly show or give
false information concerning the individual’s name, age, or other
identification for the purpose of purchasing, receiving, or otherwise acquiring
a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
      (5)   No individual shall knowingly fail to comply with the requirements
of R.C. § 3715.051(B).
      (6)   Whoever violates division (A)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawful purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (A)(3)(a) of this section is guilty of
underage purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the fourth degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (A)(4) of this section is guilty of using
false information to purchase a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
delinquent act that would be a misdemeanor of the first degree if it could be
committed by an adult.
      (9)   Whoever violates division (A)(5) of this section is guilty of
improper purchase of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
(R.C. § 2925.55)
   (B)   Unlawful retail sales.
      (1)   (a)   1.   Except as provided in division (B)(1)(b) of this
section, no retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee
of a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall knowingly sell,
offer to sell, hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide to any individual
an amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
               a.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single day;
               b.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
            2.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (B)(1)(a)1.a. and
(B)(1)(a)1.b. of this section apply to the total amount of base pseudoephedrine
or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product,
respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s overall weight.
         (b)   1.   Division (B)(1)(a) of this section does not apply to any
quantity of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product dispensed by a
pharmacist pursuant to a valid prescription issued by a licensed health
professional authorized to prescribe drugs if the conduct of the pharmacist and
the licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs is in accordance
with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731, or 4741.
            2.   It is not a violation of division (B)(1)(a) of this section
for a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee of either
to provide to an individual more than an amount of pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product specified in division (B)(1)(a)1.a. or (B)(1)(a)1.b. of this
section under either of the following circumstances:
               a.   The individual is an employee of the retailer or terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs, and the employee receives or accepts from the
retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, or employee the
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product in a sealed container in
connection with manufacturing, warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging,
loading, or unloading of the product;
               b.   A stop-sale alert is generated after the submission of
information to the national precursor log exchange under the conditions
described in R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (2)   (a)   Except as provided in division (B)(2)(b) of this section, no
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs or an employee of a
retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall sell, offer to sell,
hold for sale, deliver, or otherwise provide a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual who is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   Division (B)(2)(a) of this section does not apply to any of the
following:
            1.   A licensed health professional authorized to prescribe drugs
or pharmacist who dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age and whose
conduct is in accordance with R.C. Chapter 3719, 4715, 4723, 4729, 4730, 4731,
or 4741;
            2.   A parent or guardian of an individual under 18 years of age
who provides a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the individual;
            3.   A person who, as authorized by the individual’s parent or
guardian, dispenses, sells, or otherwise provides a pseudoephedrine product or
ephedrine product to an individual under 18 years of age;
            4.   The provision by a retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, or employee of either of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
in a sealed container to an employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of
dangerous drugs who is under 18 years of age in connection with manufacturing,
warehousing, placement, stocking, bagging, loading, or unloading of the
product.
      (3)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.051(A) or R.C. § 3715.052(A)(2).
      (4)   No retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs shall fail
to comply with the requirements of R.C. § 3715.052(A)(1).
      (5)   Whoever violates division (B)(1)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a
misdemeanor of the first degree.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (B)(2)(a) of this section is guilty of
unlawfully selling a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to a minor, a
misdemeanor of the fourth degree.
      (7)   Whoever violates division (B)(3) of this section is guilty of
improper sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product, a misdemeanor
of the second degree.
      (8)   Whoever violates division (B)(4) of this section is guilty of
failing to submit information to the national precursor log exchange, a
misdemeanor for which the offender shall be fined not more than $1,000 per
violation.
(R.C. § 2925.56)
   (C)   Transaction scans.
      (1)   As used in this division and division (D) of this section:
         CARD HOLDER. Means any person who presents a driver’s or commercial
driver’s license or an identification card to a seller, or an agent or employee
of a seller, to purchase or receive any pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product from the seller, agent, or employee.
         IDENTIFICATION CARD. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
         SELLER. Means a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs.
         TRANSACTION SCAN. Means the process by which a seller or an agent or
employee of a seller checks by means of a transaction scan device the validity
of a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or an identification card that is
presented as a condition for purchasing or receiving any pseudoephedrine
product or ephedrine product.
         TRANSACTION SCAN DEVICE. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 2927.021.
      (2)   (a)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may perform a
transaction scan by means of a transaction scan device to check the validity of
a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a
card holder as a condition for selling, giving away, or otherwise distributing
to the card holder a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product.
         (b)   If the information deciphered by the transaction scan performed
under division (C)(2)(a) of this section fails to match the information printed
on the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by the card holder, or if the transaction scan indicates that the information
so printed is false or fraudulent, neither the seller nor any agent or employee
of the seller shall sell, give away, or otherwise distribute any
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the card holder.
         (c)   Division (C)(2)(a) of this section does not preclude a seller or
an agent or employee of a seller as a condition for selling, giving away, or
otherwise distributing a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the
person presenting the document from using a transaction scan device to check
the validity of a document other than a driver’s or commercial driver’s license
or an identification card if the document includes a bar code or magnetic strip
that may be scanned by the device.
      (3)   Rules adopted by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles under R.C. §
4301.61(C) apply to the use of transaction scan devices for purposes of this
division (C) and division (D) of this section.
      (4)   (a)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall
electronically or mechanically record or maintain any information derived from
a transaction scan, except the following:
            1.   The name, address, and date of birth of the person listed on
the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by
a card holder;
            2.   The expiration date, identification number, and issuing agency
of the driver’s or commercial driver’s license or identification card presented
by a card holder.
         (b)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use the
information that is derived from a transaction scan or that is permitted to be
recorded and maintained under division (C)(4)(a) of this section except for
purposes of division (D) of this section, R.C. § 2925.58, or R.C. § 3715.052(A)
(1).
         (c)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall use a
transaction scan device for a purpose other than the purpose specified in
division (C)(2)(a) of this section.
         (d)   No seller or agent or employee of a seller shall sell or
otherwise disseminate the information derived from a transaction scan to any
third party, including but not limited to selling or otherwise disseminating
that information for any marketing, advertising, or promotional activities, but
a seller or agent or employee of a seller may release that information pursuant
to a court order or as specifically authorized by division (D) of this section
or any other section of the Ohio Revised Code.
      (5)   Nothing in this division (C) or division (D) of this section
relieves a seller or an agent or employee of a seller of any responsibility to
comply with any other applicable state or federal laws or rules governing the
sale, giving away, or other distribution of pseudoephedrine products or
ephedrine products.
      (6)   Whoever violates division (C)(2)(b) or (C)(4) of this section is
guilty of engaging in an illegal pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
transaction scan, and the court may impose upon the offender a civil penalty of
up to $1,000 for each violation. The Clerk of the Court shall pay each
collected civil penalty to the County Treasurer for deposit into the County
Treasury.
(R.C. § 2925.57)
   (D)   Affirmative defenses.
      (1)   A seller or an agent or employee of a seller may not be found
guilty of a charge of a violation of division (B) of this section in which the
age of the purchaser or other recipient of a pseudoephedrine product is an
element of the alleged violation if the seller, agent, or employee raises and
proves as an affirmative defense that all of the following occurred:
         (a)   A card holder attempting to purchase or receive a
pseudoephedrine product presented a driver’s or commercial driver’s license or
an identification card.
         (b)   A transaction scan of the driver’s or commercial driver’s
license or identification card that the card holder presented indicated that
the license or card was valid.
         (c)   The pseudoephedrine product was sold, given away, or otherwise
distributed to the card holder in reasonable reliance upon the identification
presented and the completed transaction scan.
      (2)   In determining whether a seller or an agent or employee of a seller
has proven the affirmative defense provided by division (D)(1) of this section,
the trier of fact in the action for the alleged violation of division (B) of
this section shall consider any written policy that the seller has adopted and
implemented and that is intended to prevent violations of division (B) of this
section. For purposes of division (D)(1)(c) of this section, the trier of fact
shall consider that reasonable reliance upon the identification presented and
the completed transaction scan may require a seller or an agent or employee of
a seller to exercise reasonable diligence to determine, and that the use of a
transaction scan device does not excuse a seller or an agent or employee of a
seller from exercising reasonable diligence to determine, the following:
         (a)   Whether a person to whom the seller or agent or employee of a
seller sells, gives away, or otherwise distributes a pseudoephedrine product is
18 years of age or older;
         (b)   Whether the description and picture appearing on the driver’s or
commercial driver’s license or identification card presented by a card holder
is that of the card holder.
      (3)   In any criminal action in which the affirmative defense provided by
division (D)(1) of this section is raised, the Registrar of Motor Vehicles or a
deputy registrar who issued an identification card under R.C. §§ 4507.50
through 4507.52 shall be permitted to submit certified copies of the records of
that issuance in lieu of the testimony of the personnel of or contractors with
the Bureau of Motor Vehicles in the action.
(R.C. § 2925.58)
   (E)   Retailer’s duties.
      (1)   As used in divisions (E) and (F) of this section:
         CONSUMER PRODUCT. Any food or drink that is consumed or used by humans
and any drug, including a drug that may be provided legally only pursuant to a
prescription, that is intended to be consumed or used by humans.
         DRUG. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         EPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of ephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or salts
of optical isomers.
         EPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains ephedrine.
         LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. An officer or employee of any agency or
authority of the United States, a state, a territory, a political subdivision
of a state or territory, or an Indian tribe, who is empowered by the law to
investigate or conduct an official inquiry into a potential violation of law or
prosecute or otherwise conduct a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding
arising from an alleged violation of law.
         LICENSED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE DRUGS. Has the
same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         NATIONAL PRECURSOR LOG EXCHANGE or EXCHANGE. The electronic system for
tracking sales of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products on a national
basis that is administered by the National Association of Drug Diversion
Investigators or a successor organization.
         PHARMACIST. A person licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 to engage in the
practice of pharmacy.
         PHARMACY. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIBER. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PRESCRIPTION. Has the same meanings as in R.C. § 4729.01.
         PROOF OF AGE. A driver’s license, a commercial driver’s license, a
military identification card, a passport, or an identification card issued
under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52 that shows a person is 18 years of age or
older.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE. Any material, compound, mixture, or preparation that
contains any quantity of pseudoephedrine, any of its salts, optical isomers, or
salts of optical isomers.
         PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. A consumer product that contains
pseudoephedrine.
         RETAILER. A place of business that offers consumer products for sale
to the general public.
         SINGLE-INGREDIENT PREPARATION. A compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance that contains a single active ingredient.
         STOP-SALE ALERT. A notification sent from the national precursor log
exchange to a retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs indicating
that the completion of a sale of a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product
would result in a violation of R.C. § 2925.56(A)(1) or federal law.
         TERMINAL DISTRIBUTOR OF DANGEROUS DRUGS. Has the same meanings as in
R.C. § 4729.01.
         WHOLESALER. Has the same meaning as in R.C. § 3719.01.
      (2)   A retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs that sells,
offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers, or otherwise provides a
pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product to the public shall do all of the
following:
         (a)   Segregate pseudoephedrine products or ephedrine products from
other merchandise so that no member of the public may procure or purchase such
products without the direct assistance of a pharmacist or other authorized
employee of the retailer or terminal distributor of dangerous drugs;
         (b)   With regard to each time a pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product is sold or otherwise provided without a valid prescription:
            1.   Determine, by examination of a valid proof of age, that the
purchaser or recipient is at least 18 years of age;
            2.   a.   Using any information available, including information
from the national precursor log exchange if the information is accessible, make
a reasonable attempt to ensure that no individual purchases or receives an
amount of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine product that is greater than
either of the following:
                  i.   Three and six tenths grams within a period of a single
day;
                  ii.   Nine grams within a period of 30 consecutive days.
               b.   The maximum amounts specified in divisions (E)(2)(b)2.a.i.
and (E)(2)(b)2.a.ii. of this section apply to the total amount of base
pseudoephedrine or base ephedrine in the pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product, respectively. The maximum amounts do not apply to the product’s
overall weight.
         (c)   Maintain a log book of pseudoephedrine product or ephedrine
product purchases, in accordance with R.C. § 3715.051;
         (d)   If required to comply with section R.C. § 3715.052, submit the
information specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) to (A)(1)(d) of that section to
the national precursor log exchange.
      (3)   Prescriptions, orders, and records maintained pursuant to this
section and stocks of pseudoephedrine products and ephedrine products shall be
open for inspection to federal, state, county, and municipal officers, and
employees of the State Board of Pharmacy whose duty it is to enforce the laws
of this state or of the United States relating to controlled substances. Such
prescriptions, orders, records, and stocks shall be open for inspection by the
State Medical Board and its employees for purposes of enforcing R.C. Chapter
4731.
(R.C. § 3715.05)
   (F)   Theft or loss; reporting requirements.
      (1)   Each retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy,
prescriber, or wholesaler that sells, offers to sell, holds for sale, delivers,
or otherwise provides any pseudoephedrine product and that discovers the theft
or loss of any pseudoephedrine product in an amount of more than nine grams per
incident of theft or loss shall notify all of the following upon discovery of
the theft or loss:
         (a)   The State Board of Pharmacy, by telephone immediately upon
discovery of the theft or loss;
         (b)   Law enforcement authorities. If the incident is a theft and the
theft constitutes a felony, the retailer, terminal distributor of dangerous
drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler shall report the theft to the law
enforcement authorities in accordance with R.C. § 2921.22.
      (2)   Within 30 days after making a report by telephone to the State
Board of Pharmacy pursuant to division (F)(1)(a) of this section, a retailer,
terminal distributor of dangerous drugs, pharmacy, prescriber, or wholesaler
shall send a written report to the State Board of Pharmacy.
      (3)   The reports required under this section shall identify the product
that was stolen or lost, the amount of the product stolen or lost, and the date
and time of discovery of the theft or loss.
(R.C. § 3715.06)
§ 138.19 SALE OF PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT.
   (A)   As used in this section, PURE CAFFEINE PRODUCT means:
      (1)   Subject to division (A)(2) of this section, a product that consists
solely or primarily of caffeine and is manufactured into a crystalline, liquid,
or powdered form.
      (2)   The phrase does not include any of the following that contains
caffeine and is formulated, manufactured, and labeled in accordance with the
laws and regulations enforced by the United States Food and Drug
Administration:
         (a)   Coffee, tea, any soft drink, any energy drink, or any other
caffeine-containing beverage;
         (b)   Any energy product.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, no person shall
knowingly sell or offer for sale a pure caffeine product.
   (C)   Division (B) of this section does not prohibit a person from selling
or offering for sale any product manufactured in a unit-dose form such as a
pill, tablet, or caplet, but only if each unit dose of the product contains not
more than 250 milligrams of caffeine.
   (D)   Nothing in this section prohibits either of the following:
      (1)   Possession of a product described in division (C) of this section;
      (2)   Possession of a pure caffeine product by any of the following:
         (a)   A food processing establishment, as defined in R.C. § 3715.021;
         (b)   A manufacturer of a drug that is available without a
prescription;
         (c)   A laboratory that holds a current, valid category III terminal
distributor of dangerous drugs license issued by the state board of pharmacy
under R.C. § 4729.54;
         (d)   A laboratory of any agency or department of this state that
performs testing, analysis, and other laboratory services on behalf of the
state;
         (e)   A postal or delivery service that transports or delivers a pure
caffeine product to an entity specified in divisions (D)(2)(a) to (D)(2)(d) of
this section.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegal
sale of pure caffeine, a minor misdemeanor on a first offense and a misdemeanor
of the third degree on each subsequent offense.
(R.C. § 2925.34)
§ 138.20 SALE OF DEXTROMETHORPHAN.
   (A)   As used in this section:
      DEXTROMETHORPHAN. Means the dextrorotatory isomer of 3-methoxy-N-
methylmorphinan, including its salts, but not including its racemic or
levorotatory forms.
      EVIDENCE OF MAJORITY AND IDENTITY. Means a document issued by the federal
government or a state, county, or municipal government, or a subdivision or
agency of any of the foregoing, including a driver’s or commercial driver’s
license, an identification card issued under R.C. §§ 4507.50 to 4507.52, a
military identification card, or any other form of identification that bears
the name, date of birth, description, and picture of the person identified.
      RETAILER. Means a place of business that offers consumer products for
sale to the general public, including a terminal distributor of dangerous drugs
that is licensed under R.C. Chapter 4729 and operated as a pharmacy.
   (B)   No retailer or employee of a retailer shall knowingly supply, deliver,
give, or otherwise provide a drug, material, compound, mixture, preparation, or
substance containing any quantity of dextromethorphan through the sale of any
product to a person under 18 years of age, unless the person has been issued a
prescription for the product being purchased.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the person making the
sale of a product containing dextromethorphan shall require and obtain evidence
of majority and identity from the purchaser, unless from the purchaser’s
outward appearance the person making the sale would reasonably presume the
purchaser to be 25 years of age or older. Proof that the person making the sale
demanded, was shown, and acted in reasonable reliance on the purchaser’s
evidence of majority and identity is a defense to any charge of a violation of
division (B) of this section.
   (D)   A retailer or employee of a retailer is not liable for damages in a
civil action for injury, death, or loss to person or property that allegedly
arises from an act or omission associated with a failure to prevent the sale of
a product containing dextromethorphan to a person under 18 years of age, unless
the act or omission constitutes willful or wanton misconduct.
   (E)   Whoever violates division (B) of this section is guilty of illegally
selling dextromethorphan, a minor misdemeanor.
(R.C. § 2925.62)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Minimum standards
   
150.02   Maintenance
   
150.03   Infestation by pests
   
150.04   Exterior property area
   
150.05   Secondary or appurtenant structures
   
150.06   Cisterns
   
150.07   Storage prohibited
   
150.08   Exception
   
150.09   Notice
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   For the purpose of establishing minimum standards for the maintenance of
properties and buildings in the village, regulating the storage of certain
types of debris and business work product on residential properties in the
village, authorizing the inspection of properties in the village and providing
for the removal or repair of insecure, unsafe or structurally defective
buildings or other structures, the following maintenance standards are hereby
implemented.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 150.02 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Maintenance responsibilities. Any owner or occupant shall maintain its
buildings, structures and exterior property area in strict compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   General maintenance requirements. The owner or occupant shall maintain
all dwelling structures and all parts thereof in good repair and the structure,
and all parts thereof shall be capable of performing the function for which
such structure or part of any feature thereof was designated or intended to be
used, and shall be free from health, accident or fire hazards.
   (C)   Maintenance of foundations.
      (1)   All foundations of every dwelling structure shall be maintained
structurally sound and in good repair.
      (2)   All foundations of every dwelling structure shall be maintained in
such conditions as to prevent the accumulation of moisture within the space
enclosed within such foundation.
      (3)   All openings into the foundations of every dwelling structure shall
be protected against the entrance of rodents.
   (D)   Maintenance of roofs, gutters and downpours. All roofs of every
dwelling structure shall be maintained weather tight. If equipped with gutters
and downpours, they shall be maintained in good condition and properly affixed
to the structure.
   (E)   Maintenance of exteriors of all structures.
      (1)   All exterior parts of any structures, including, but not limited
to, exterior walls, parapet walls, decorative additions, chimneys, roofs and
all other exterior structures, either above or below thereof line, shall be
maintained in a safe condition, weather-tight and so as to resist decay or
deterioration for any cause or shall be removed from the property.
      (2)   Any dwelling structure or secondary or appurtenant structure whose
exterior surface is bare, deteriorated, ramshackle, tumbledown, decaying,
disintegrating or in poor repair must be repaired or razed.
         (a)   All buckled, rotted or decayed walls, doors, windows, porches,
floors, steps, railings, trim, chimneys, roofs and their missing members must
be replaced and put in good condition.
         (b)   All replacements must match and conform to original design or be
replaced completely.
         (c)   All exterior wood or exterior unfinished surfaces must be sealed
or painted or surface covered with other appropriate protective coating and to
conform and match the exterior surface covering and original design or
replacement thereof.
      (3)   Any structure whose exterior surface is deteriorated, decaying,
disintegrating or whose exterior surface has weathered or has been impaired
through peeling or flaking of the paint or other protective coating shall be
repaired and repainted or resurfaced.
         (a)   All exterior surfaces shall be replaced or repaired in good
condition preparatory to repainting or coating.
         (b)   All bare exterior surfaces which are flaking or crumbling shall
be replaced or sealed in a good and workmanlike manner.
         (c)   All new or repaired bare surfaces shall be painted or coated.
         (d)   All exterior surfaces weathered or which are peeling or flaking
shall be painted or covered with appropriate protective coating or surface.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 150.03 INFESTATION BY PESTS.
   All dwelling structures and any out-buildings adjacent thereto shall be
maintained free from sources of breeding, harborage and infestation by insects,
vermin or rodents.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 150.04 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREA.
   No owner or operator of any premises shall maintain or permit to be
maintained at or on the exterior property areas of the premises any condition
which deteriorates or debases the appearance of the neighborhood; or creates a
fire, safety or health hazard; or which is a public nuisance, including, but
not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Broken, crumbling or dilapidated chimneys, roofs, fences, walls or
other structures;
   (B)   Broken, uneven or improperly maintained walks or drives;
   (C)   Out of use or non-usable appliances, dilapidated auto parts or junk
automobiles;
   (D)   Rugs, rags or other materials hung on lines or in other places on the
premises, which materials are not being used for general household or
housekeeping purposes; broken, dilapidated or unusable furniture, mattresses or
other household furnishings; or plastic materials, paints, miscellaneous
coverings and/or any other materials, placed at or on the premises in such
manner as to be patently unsightly, grotesque or offensive to the senses;
   (E)   Cisterns that gather and hold water; and
   (F)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05 SECONDARY OR APPURTENANT STRUCTURES.
   All secondary or appurtenant structures such as sheds, barns, garages and
the like, shall either be maintained in good repair and free from health,
accident and fire hazards or shall be removed from the premises.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 150.06 CISTERNS.
   No owner or operator of any premises shall maintain or permit a cistern to
remain on the property if the following occur:
   (A)   The cistern results in a hazard to the property such that it creates
an unsafe walking area; or
   (B)   The cistern holds water as such retention of water could result in a
breeding ground for mosquitoes that could carry West Nile virus or other
communicable diseases.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.07 STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person in charge or control of any premises, whether as owner,
tenant, lessee, occupant or otherwise, shall allow any junk or junk motor
vehicle to remain upon such premises longer than ten days after receipt of
written notice to remove the junk or junk cars from the premises, unless they
are housed in a garage or other suitable structure.
   (B)   Except in a completely enclosed building or other structure and not
visible from ground level of a public right-of-way or roadway, or a residential
neighbor’s property, no person shall store, park, leave, deposit, maintain,
permit, allow or suffer to remain in a residential district within the village
any of the following:
      (1)   Any lumber or other construction materials, including, but not
limited to, iron, galvanized or plastic pipe or conduit, structural steel or
other metals, roofing materials or masonry material, such as, brick or cement
block except for materials related to an on-going project for which a current
building permit has been issued, and which is posted on the project location.
Firewood for private use or consumption on the premises where so stored or
maintained shall not be considered building material for the purposes of this
section;
      (2)   Any machinery, equipment, household appliances or any parts
thereof, tiers, refuse, other junk or salvage items; or
      (3)   Any items left over from any business enterprise within or outside
the village, that results in the storage of any business related refuse, or
left over, or items removed from other locations, including, but not limited
to, stumps, trees, cut-up wood, whether designated or called firewood, or not,
or any items that were removed as part of a tree trimming or removal business,
including, but not limited to, sawdust, chipped wood, tree limbs, tree stumps,
cut-up wood or any of the residual items remaining and/or removed from another
premise or premises. Notwithstanding this provision, a residence may have
stored on its property, firewood for personal fireplace or heating use, but
only if stored neatly and not for more than one year’s use. It is illegal and a
violation of this chapter, if the items are stored or kept at any residential
premises within the village, if the items are not stored in an appropriately
zoned and permissible residential structure and cannot be seen or observed from
a public street or any other residential premises. Each day of a violation
shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.08 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter, however, shall not apply to the deposit,
storage, maintenance or collection of junk or junk cars in an enclosed building
or a container in a regularly established junk yard.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 150.09 NOTICE.
   (A)   Generally. The village shall have the ability to inspect buildings or
other structures, order the removal and/or repair of any insecure, unsafe or
structurally defective buildings, structures, any parts thereof and cisterns,
and provide notices to owners or occupants of the premises believed to be in
violation of this chapter, and recover monies expended by the village.
   (B)   Notice prior to removal or repair of structure. At least 30 days prior
to the removal or repair of any insecure, unsafe or structurally defective
building, the village shall give notice by certified mail of its intention with
respect to such removal and/or repair to the holders of legal or equitable
liens of record upon the real property on which such building is located to
owners of record of such property. The owners of record of such property or the
holders of liens of record upon such property may enter into an agreement with
the village to perform the removal and/or repair of the insecure, unsafe or
structurally defective building, structures, any parts thereof and cisterns. If
an emergency exists, as determined by the village, notice may be given other
than be certified mail and less than 30 days prior to such removal or repair
period.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   The Village Council may determine that any property in violation of the
terms of this chapter shall constitute a nuisance and shall so declare at a
public meeting. Thereafter, and with the notice set forth in §
150.09, the village may exercise its option to repair and/or raze the building,
other structure or items located on the exterior property area as set forth in
§
150.04 in the event that the village deems that the structure is insecure,
unsafe or structurally defective, or that the exterior property area violates
the provisions of §
150.04. The village may thereafter collect the total cost of removing,
repairing or securing the insecure, unsafe or structurally defective building,
other structures or exterior property area violations pursuant to R.C. §
715.261. Alternatively, the village may seek criminal penalties as set forth
below.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to locate, erect,
construct, reconstruct, enlarge, change, maintain, use, permit or allow any
building or structure to remain in a condition that is deemed insecure, unsafe,
structurally defective, has been determined to be a public nuisance, causes a
health hazard or otherwise violates this chapter. It shall also be unlawful for
any owner or occupant of property to maintain an exterior property area in a
condition that violates §
150.04 or otherwise violates this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more
than $500, imprisoned not more than six months, or both. Each and every day
during which such illegal location, erection, construction, reconstruction,
enlargement, change, maintenance or use continued, shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. O-05-2017, passed 3-8-2017)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE REDUCTION
Section
   
151.01   Adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The special purpose flood damage reduction ordinance is hereby adopted by
reference. A full copy of the ordinance can be found in the village office.
(Ord. O-05-2010, passed 5-18-2010)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Scope
   
152.003   Commercial and industrial
   
152.004   Administration and authority
   
152.005   Jurisdiction
   
152.006   Relation to other laws
   
152.007   Public hearing
   
152.008   Effective date
   
152.009   Amendments
   
152.010   Definitions
Application and Approval Procedures
   
152.020   Pre-application
   
152.021   Submission for conditional approval of preliminary plat
   
152.022   Supplementary information
   
152.023   Filing
   
152.024   Suitability of land
   
152.025   Approval
   
152.026   Submission for approval of final plat
   
152.027   Supplementary information
   
152.028   Plan and profile; utility plans
   
152.029   Filing
   
152.030   Approval
   
152.031   Recording of final plat
   
152.032   Lot split deed transfers
Subdivision Design Standards
   
152.045   General
   
152.046   Street design and arrangement
   
152.047   Street alignment
   
152.048   Street type and width
   
152.049   Special street types
   
152.050   Street grades
   
152.051   Street names
   
152.052   Acceptance of streets
   
152.053   Street intersections
   
152.054   Alleys
   
152.055   Easements
   
152.056   Blocks
   
152.057   Lots
   
152.058   Public sites and open spaces
   
152.059   Flood prone areas   
   
152.060   Manufactured home subdivision
   
152.061   Trees
   
152.062   Soils statement
Minimum Required Improvements
   
152.075   General
   
152.076   Inspection
   
152.077   Fees and pre-construction notification
   
152.078   Materials and construction procedure
   
152.079   Utility and street improvements
   
152.080   Utilities and other improvements
   
152.081   Improvements bond
   
152.082   Guidelines for water and sewer lines
Hillside Design Standards and Minimum Required Improvements
   
152.095   General
   
152.096   Determination of average slope
   
152.097   Minimum lot regulations per family
   
152.098   Minimum slope regulations requirements
   
152.099   Grading plan
   
152.100   Grading controls
   
152.101   Cuts and fills
   
152.102   Compaction of fill
   
152.103   Streets
   
152.104   Building lines and easements
   
152.105   Lots
   
152.106   Undevelopable land
   
152.107   Utility and street improvement
Enforcement
   
152.120   Recording of plat
   
152.121   Revision of plat after approval
   
152.122   Fees
   
152.123   Sale of land in subdivision
   
152.124   Permits
   
152.125   Validity
Variances
   
152.135   Hardship
   
152.136   Large scale development
   
152.137   Conditions
   
152.138   Lot designs
 
   
152.999   Penalty
   
App. A:   Required statements and signatures to be affixed in the subdivision
plat
   
App. B:   Approvals of subdivision plat
   
App. D:   Application for tentative approval of temporary plat
   
App. E:   Application for final plat approval
   
App. F:   Final plat checklist
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the subdivision of
land within the village. These regulations are intended to:
   (A)   Promote the proper arrangement of streets and lots, safe and
convenient vehicular traffic and pedestrian circulation, and adequate access
for service and emergency vehicles;
   (B)   Plan for the provision of adequate and convenient recreational and
open space areas, school sites and other public facilities;
   (C)   Ensure the adequate provision of water, drainage and sanitary sewer
facilities, and other health requirements;
   (D)   Provide the orderly development of land to obtain an overall
harmonious and stable community environment;
   (E)   Coordinate land development in accordance with the Zoning Code, the
major thoroughfare plan, where possible, and other regulations of the village;
and
   (F)   Manage the natural resource base for present and future use on a
sustained basis.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.002 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective date of this chapter.
Nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way
impair or interfere with existing provisions of other laws or regulations,
except those specifically repealed by this chapter, or with private
restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant or other private agreement,
or with restrictive covenants running with the land to which the village is
party. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon land than is
imposed or required by such existing provisions of law, resolution, contract or
deed, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.003 COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL.
   Developers of shopping centers and other commercial, as well as industrial
uses must comply with the same requirements as residential developers. Plans or
written and signed statements regarding highway access points and planted areas
and buffer strips may be required where applicable.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.004 ADMINISTRATION AND AUTHORITY.
   The Council by virtue of the provisions of R.C. Chapter 711 is authorized,
subject to the holding of required public hearings, to adopt rules and
regulations covering plats for subdivisions of land, and to approve,
conditionally approve or disapprove plats or subdivisions of land falling
within its jurisdiction. Administration of the rules and regulations contained
herein shall be the responsibility of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.005 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all plats, subdivisions and
conveyances of land in the municipality as described in R.C. §§ 711.09 and
711.101. The Planning Commission shall have the power of final approval of the
plats.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to subdivide or lay out into lots
any land within the municipality unless it is by a plat complying with the
regulations herein contained, and no plat shall be recorded and no lot or land
shall be sold from any such plat until said plat has been approved as herein
required.
   (B)   The design and layout of all subdivisions shall conform to the
requirements hereof. The developer shall make improvements and shall submit
preliminary and final plans, all in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   The division of a tract into five parcels or less, fronting upon an
existing street, and where the transfer is to be accomplished by the recording
of a deed rather than a plat, requires the approval of the Planning Commission
before it can be recorded. Such approval may be accomplished in the manner
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.006 RELATION TO OTHER LAWS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall supplement any and all laws of the
state, resolutions by the village or any and all rules and regulations
promulgated by authority of such law or resolution relating to the purpose and
scope of this chapter. Whenever the requirements of this chapter are at
variance with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted rules,
regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the most restrictive or that imposing
the highest standard shall govern. This chapter shall be interpreted as minimum
requirements.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.007 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Commission on its own initiative or upon petition by a citizen or
neighboring property owner may, prior to acting on a preliminary map of a
subdivision, hold a hearing thereon at such time and upon such notice as the
Commission may designate.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.008 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective following adoption by the Planning
Commission and the Village Council, after public hearing and certification to
the Recorder as provided by law. Henceforth, any other regulations previously
adopted by the Council or the Planning Commission shall be deemed to be
repealed. This chapter shall in no way affect any subdivision having received
preliminary approval by the Commission prior to the effective date; provided,
however, that no changes to the preliminary plan, as approved, are introduced
by the developer.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.009 AMENDMENTS.
   The Council may, after public hearing, amend, supplement or change this
chapter. Notice shall be given of the time and place of such public hearing by
publication in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the local area
30 days prior to holding of said hearing. The amendment or amendments shall be
on file in the office of the Planning Commission for public examination during
the said 30 days.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways,
public streets, railroad rights-of-way, parks, streams, lakes or bodies of
water or a combination of aforesaid bounds.
   BUILDING LOT. The portion of the subdivision or other parcel of land
intended as a unit for transfer of ownership upon which the building structure
and appurtenance are to be placed, or already exist, including areas for water
well, sewage disposal, setbacks, proper surface water drainways and appropriate
easements.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit allowing resumption of construction or placement
of a structure on a specific building lot.
   BUILDING SITE. The portion of the lot or parcel of land upon which the
building and appurtenance are to be placed, or area already existing, including
adequate areas for sewage disposal, clearance, proper drainage and appropriate
easements.
   CLERK OF THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The Clerk of the Board of County
Commissioners of Tuscarawas County.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The master plan (which may consist of several maps, data
and the like) or any portion thereof, made and adopted by the Planning
Commission or by the Village Council and which shows the general location and
extent of physical facilities, including major streets and main thoroughfares,
parks, schools and other public open spaces, and public building sites.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, partnership or corporation or duly authorized agent
who constructs or contracts to construct improvements on subdivided land.
   COUNCIL. Elected six members of Village Council.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The County Engineer of Tuscarawas County, Ohio.
   CROSSWALK. An easement or a public right-of-way which cuts across a block to
facilitate access to adjacent streets and properties.
   DEVELOPER. Any person, partnership or corporation or duly authorized agent
who subdivides and/or improves land for the purpose of establishing site(s)
intended for the placement of residential, commercial, industrial or
institutional structures, or other private and public betterments.
   DRAINAGE FACILITY. Any ditch, gutter, pipe, culvert, storm sewer or other
structure designed, intended or constructed for the purpose of diverting
surface waters from or carrying surface waters off streets, public rights-of-
way, parks, recreational areas or any part of any subdivision or contiguous
land areas.
   DRAINAGE PLAN. A plan showing all present and existing surface and
subsurface drainage conditions as described by grades, contours and topography
with proposed methods and facilities to collect and convey said drainage.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor vehicular right-of-way providing access between a street
and a parking area or garage within a lot or property.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for specified use of said land to a
corporation, partnership, person or persons, or to the public.
   ENGINEER; VILLAGE ENGINEER. The Engineer representing the village.
   FINAL PLAT. The final map, drawing or chart on which the developer’s plan is
presented to the Planning Commission for approval and which, if approved will
be submitted to the County Recorder.
   FLOODPLAIN. The portion of a river or creek valley adjacent to the drainage
channel which is periodically covered with water when the river or creek
overflows its bank during flood stage.
   FUTURE RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right-of-way width required for the expansion of
existing streets to accommodate anticipated future traffic loads; and a right-
of-way established to provide future access to or through undeveloped land.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The County Board of Health.
   HILLSIDE AREA. A hillside area as referred to herein is defined as one with
an average slope of 15% or more.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Street improvements, with or without curb or gutter,
sidewalks, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary and storm sewers, street trees and
other appropriate items.
   LOCATION MAP. A drawing at a reduced scale which shows legibly, by dimension
and/or other means, enough area beyond the bounds of the proposed subdivision
to locate and orient the subdivision within the village and vicinity, and the
relationship of the site to the community facilities which serve or influence
the property.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended for transfer of ownership or building
development, having its principal frontage on a public street, except for those
lots on private lands, accessible by a private drive, as allowed by the
Commission in cluster subdivisions.
   LOT AREA. The area contained within the property lines of the individual
parcels of land as shown on a major subdivision plan, excluding any area within
a street right-of-way, but including the area of any easement.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance from the front street line to the
rear lot line.
   LOT SPLIT. The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as
contiguous units on the last preceding tax roll, into at least two, but no more
than five parcels, sites or lots, any one of which is less than five acres for
the purposes, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership; provided,
however that the division or partition of land does not involve any new
construction or modification of current streets or easements of access.
   MONUMENT. A permanent concrete or iron marker used to establish definitely
all lot lines of the plat of a subdivision, including all lot corners, boundary
line corners and points of change in street alignment, and as set forth in the
R.C. § 711.03.
   NEIGHBORHOOD UNIT. An area of sufficient size to permit the design and
development of an integrated urban unit containing in addition to a variety of
residential types and groupings its own elementary school, local business
district, churches, clubs, recreation area and bounded by arterial highways,
major streets and/or natural physical barriers.
   NET ACRE. Land acreage within a subdivision or other delineated area which
excluded all street, utility and railroad rights-of-way, and waterways.
   OFFICIAL HIGHWAY PLAN. A plan designating a system of principal or major
streets and highways for traffic intercommunication.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The map established by the Planning Commission showing
streets, highways and/or parks theretofore laid out, adopted and established by
law and any amendments thereto adopted by the County Commissioners and the
Planning Commission or additions thereto.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.
   PARCEL. Any piece of land described by a current deed.
   PERFORMANCE BOND or SURETY BOND. An agreement by the developer with the
village for the amount of the estimated construction cost guaranteeing the
completion of physical improvements according to plans and specifications
within the time prescribed by the agreement.
   PLANNING COMMISSION or COMMISSION. The Village Planning Commission of
Strasburg, Ohio.
   PLAT. A map upon which the developer’s plan of the subdivision is presented
and which he or she submits for approval and intends to record in the final
form.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary plat, drawing or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision.
   PROSECUTOR; COUNTY PROSECUTOR. The Prosecutor of Tuscarawas County, Ohio.
   REGULATION. Subdivision regulations for the village.
   RESERVES. Parcels of land within a subdivision that are intended for future
use.
   SETBACK LINE. A line indicating the minimum horizontal distance between the
street easement or right-of-way line and buildings or any projection thereof,
unless otherwise specifically defined.
   SEWAGE FACILITY. Any sewer, sewerage system, sewage treatment works on part
thereof, designed, intended or constructed for the collection, treatment or
disposal of liquid waste including industrial waste.
   SEWAGE INSTALLATION PERMIT. A permit issued by the Health Department giving
the applicant the right to install, maintain and operate a private sewerage
treatment system.
   SKETCH (PRE-APPLICATION). An informal drawing which shows how a developer
proposes to subdivide a property and which gives sufficient site information
for the Planning Commission representatives to offer suggestions for site
development.
   SOLICITOR. The solicitor and/or legal counsel of the village.
   STREET. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, freeway, road, boulevard, avenue,
lane, place or however otherwise designated.
      (1)   INTRACOMMUNITY STREETS.
         (a)   MAJOR STREETS are those local thoroughfares which carry cross-
town traffic from several neighborhoods, thereby servicing several residential
collector streets.
         (b)   COLLECTOR STREETS are primary streets serving industrial and
commercial areas on the principal street, which carries traffic from minor
streets to major streets, including the principal entrance streets of
residential developments and primary circulation routes within such
developments.
         (c)   LOCAL STREETS are used primarily for access to abutting
properties.
         (d)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS are minor streets which are parallel and
adjacent to an arterial street and provided access to abutting properties and
protection from major streets or thoroughfares.
         (e)   CUL-DE-SAC OR DEAD-END STREETS are minor streets with only one
outlet.
         (f)   ALLEYS are minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular
service access to the back or the side of properties otherwise abutting on
another street.
      (2)   INTRAVILLAGE STREET. Secondary thoroughfares are minor roads in a
rural area which is used for travel within a township or farm to farm.
      (3)   INTERCOMMUNITY THOROUGHFARES.
         (a)   Interstate or expressway which possesses extra-wide right-of-way
carrying high traffic volumes of unobstructed, limited-access vehicular
movement.
         (b)   Limited access highways which intercept several major streets
and may or may not have separated intersections. This is a principal or heavy-
traffic street of considerable continuity and is used primarily as an artery
for intercommunication between large areas.
      (4)   INTERVILLAGE STREET. A primary thoroughfare is a road which is used
for intercommunity travel.
      (5)   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating
the right-of-way of a street.
   SUBDIVISION. Either of the following shall be considered subdivisions as
regulated herein.
      (1)   The division of any parcel of land shown as a unit or as contiguous
units on the last preceding tax roll, into more than five parcels, sites or
lots, any one of which is less than five acres for the purposes, whether
immediate or future, of transfer of ownership. The sale or exchange of parcels
between adjoining lot owners, where such sale or exchange does not create
additional building sites, shall be exempted.
      (2)   The improvement of one or more parcels of land for residential,
commercial or industrial structures or groups of structures involving the
division or allocation of land for the opening, widening or extension of any
street or streets, except private streets serving industrial structures; the
division or allocation of land as open spaces for common use by owners,
occupants or lease holders, or as easements for the extension and maintenance
of public sewer, water, storm drainage or other public facilities.
   ZONING REGULATIONS. The zoning resolution of any public entity in the
county.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
APPLICATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
§ 152.020 PRE-APPLICATION.
   (A)   Previous to the filing for tentative approval of the preliminary plat,
the developer shall submit to the Planning Commission a sketch plan. The
purpose of this stage is to discuss early and informally the purpose and effect
of this chapter, and to familiarize the developer with the comprehensive plan,
official highway plan for the village, zoning, and other municipal and village
planning engineering projects, drainage, sewerage, water systems and similar
standards, requirements and plans.
   (B)   If the Planning Commission determines that the proposed subdivision is
feasible and acceptable from these standpoints, the preparation of a
preliminary plat for submission to the Planning Commission for formal
consideration can occur. No comments or statements made during the pre-
application discussions shall be construed as a final acceptance of the
preliminary plat until the formal approval of the Planning Commission is
granted.
   (C)   The sketch plan shall be clearly and legibly drawn. It shall be drawn
at a scale of one inch equals approximately 100 feet.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.021 SUBMISSION FOR CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The following items should be addressed when a developer submits a
preliminary plat.
   (A)   Sewage disposal. The developer in a letter accompanying the request
for preliminary approval of a subdivision shall state the kind and type of
sewage disposal treatment he or she proposes to use. If other than a sewage
treatment plant, it shall be accompanied by a letter from County Health
Department stating what type of sewage disposal will be approved for the soil
conditions encountered in the area of the proposed subdivision. A central
sewage treatment plant and a central water system must be constructed by the
developer when deemed necessary by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency.
Content and supplementary information.
   (B)   Form. The preliminary plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn. The
size of the map shall be on one or more sheets 24 inches by 36 inches. All
subdivisions shall be drawn at a scale of one inch equals 50 feet, unless
otherwise required by the Commission.
   (C)   Plat contents. The preliminary plat shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Proposed name of the subdivision. The name shall not duplicate, be
the same in spelling, or alike in pronunciation with an other recorded
subdivision in the village;
      (2)   Names and addresses of the developer, owner and professional
individual responsible for the preparation of the preliminary plan;
      (3)   Date of survey if applicable;
      (4)   Scale of the plan both graphically and numerically, north point and
date;
      (5)   Boundaries of the subdivision indicated by the heavy line and its
acreage indicated;
      (6)   Total acreage included in the subdivision;
      (7)   Location, widths and names of existing, platted streets, utility
and railroad right-of-way, easements, parks, permanent buildings, corporation
lines and township;
      (8)   Names of adjacent subdivisions, owners of record (as of the last
preceding tax roll) of adjoining parcels of unsubdivided land and the location
of their boundary lines;
      (9)   Zoning districts, if any;
      (10)   Existing contours with intervals of not more than five feet where
slope exceeds 10% and not more than two feet where slope is 10% or less.
Elevations are to be based on sea level datum (USGS). Reference bench mark used
shall be indicated. When the slope is less than 10% and involves ten lots or
less, and no new streets are involved or old streets widened contours may be
omitted;
      (11)   Existing drainage channels, underground facilities, wooded area,
power transmission poles and lines, and any other significant items should be
shown. High water marks are to be shown in vicinities of streams or lakes;
      (12)   Layout, names and widths of proposed streets, alleys, crosswalks
and other easements;
      (13)   All lot numbers and building setback lines with dimensions;
      (14)   When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at
angles other than 90 degrees, the width at the property line shall be shown;
      (15)   Parcels of land intended to be reserved for public uses or to be
reserved by covenant for residents inhabiting the subdivision must be
identified as such; and
      (16)   A vicinity map at a scale of not more than 800 feet to the inch
shall be shown on, or accompany, the preliminary plat. This map shall show all
existing subdivisions, road and tract lines with the names of the owners of
land immediately adjoining the proposed subdivision and between it and the
nearest existing thoroughfare. It shall also show how roads in the proposed
subdivision may connect with existing and proposed roads in neighboring
subdivisions or undeveloped property to produce the most advantageous
development of the entire neighboring area.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.022 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   The following information must also be submitted with a preliminary plat:
   (A)   Statement of the proposed use of lots, stating type of residential
buildings with number of proposed dwelling units; type of business or industry;
so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards or
congestion of population;
   (B)   Proposed covenants and restrictions;
   (C)   Evidence of an adequate source of water supply;
   (D)   Statement outlining method to be used and provisions to be made for
sewage disposal, drainage and flood control;
   (E)   If any zoning changes are contemplated by the developer, the proposed
zoning should be outlined and described; and
   (F)   Parking and loading areas, pedestrian walkways and ingress/regress
points must be shown.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.023 FILING.
   The developer shall prepare and file a preliminary plan for approval with
the Commission, and five copies shall be required by the Commission according
to the standards and other requirements of this chapter. The preliminary plan
shall be considered officially filed on the day accepted by the Commission and
shall be so dated. The preliminary plan shall then be examined by the Village
Engineer and/or designated person in behalf of the Commission. The applicant
pays the fee at this point, before a lot review is done.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.024 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   If the Planning Commission finds that land proposed to be subdivided is
unsuitable for subdivision development due to flooding, bad drainage, steep
slopes, inadequate water supply, schools, transportation facilities, inadequate
fire protection or safety service access and other such conditions which may
endanger health, life or property; and, if from investigations conducted by the
public agencies concerned, it is determined that in the best interests of the
public the land should not be developed for the purpose proposed, the
Commission shall not approve the land for subdivision unless adequate methods
are advanced by the developer for meeting the problems that will be created by
the development of the land.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.025 APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall forward copies of the preliminary plan
to other officials and agencies as may be properly interested for the purpose
of study and recommendation. After receipt of reports from such officials and
agencies, the Planning Commission shall determine whether the preliminary map
shall be approved, approved with modifications or disapproved. Notice of such
action shall be supplied to the developer. If no comment is received within 30
days, then the consulted group has no objection.
   (B)   The Commission shall act on the preliminary plan within 30 days after
filing unless such time is extended by agreement with the developer or his or
her agent. When a preliminary plan has been approved by the Commission, the
chairperson or Secretary of the Commission shall affix his or her signature to
the plan and return one copy to the developer for compliance with final
approval requirements. Approval of the preliminary plan by the Commission shall
not constitute approval of the final plan by the Commission.
   (C)   Approval of the preliminary plan shall confer upon the developer for
one calendar year from date of approval the guarantee that the general terms
and conditions under which the approval was granted will not be affected by any
changes and/or amendments to this chapter.
   (D)   After receiving notice of the approval of the preliminary plat and
prior to the filing of the final plat, the developer shall present to the
Commission typical sections and complete profiles of streets and other related
improvements to be constructed in the proposed subdivision prepared by a
registered engineer. The Commission shall, within five working days after the
filing of the above typical sections and complete profiles, transmit copies of
same to the Village Engineer and the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator for study and final recommendations. The Commission, after
receiving a report from the aforementioned officials, shall notify the
developer of any recommended changes or suggestions so that the developer may
prepare the final improvement plans and final plat.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.026 SUBMISSION FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat will have incorporated all changes or modifications
required by the Planning Commission and Village Engineer, otherwise it shall
conform to the preliminary plat, and it may constitute only that portion of the
approved preliminary plat which the developer proposed to record and develop at
the time; provided that such portion conforms with all requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The final plat shall be prepared by a registered surveyor if any new
parcels and/or lots have been created and shall be clearly and legibly drawn
with permanent ink. The size of the plat shall be on one or more sheets 20
inches by 20 inches. Scale shall be one inch equals 50 feet. If more than two
sheets are required, an index sheet must be filed showing the entire
subdivision on one sheet with all areas shown on other sheets indicated
thereon.
   (C)   The final plat shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name of the subdivision; location, date, north point, graphic and
numerical scale, and total acreage;
      (2)   All plat boundaries with length of courses in feet and hundredths,
bearings to not more than half minutes. All surveys must be done to state
minimum standards;
      (3)   Bearings and distances to the nearest established street lines or
other recognized permanent monuments, which shall be accurately described on
the plat;
      (4)   Exact locations of adjoining and proposed streets and alleys with
their widths and names plus building setback lines;
      (5)   All easements and rights-of-way provided for public services or
utilities, and any limitations of such rights-of-way or easement;
      (6)   All lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in feet and
hundredths, and with bearings. The basis of bearings shall be stated on plat.
The acreage of all lots over one acre in size shall be indicated;
      (7)   Names and addresses of the developer and the qualified surveyor who
prepared the final plan;
      (8)   Accurate outlines of any areas to be dedicated or temporarily
reserved for public use or any area to be reserved for common uses of all
property owners;
      (9)   A list of all restrictions and covenants the developer intends to
include in the deeds to the lots in the subdivision shall accompany the final
plat and shall be recorded prior to final plat approval. Reference to their
recording shall be made on the final plat;
      (10)   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents a survey made by him or her and that all monuments shown thereon
exist as located and that all dimensional details are correct;
      (11)   An acknowledgment by the owner or owners of his or her or their
adoption of the plat, and dedication of streets and other public areas;
      (12)   Vicinity map of area within one-half mile radius except that this
requirement may be waived where the area is located in a mapped area within the
municipality or section contiguous thereto; and
      (13)   Lot numbers and corresponding house numbers.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.027 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If a zoning change is involved, certification from the Zoning
Inspector by review of official zoning map shall be required indicating that
the change has been approved and is in effect.
   (B)   The final plat shall be accompanied by certificates showing that all
improvements have either been installed and approved by the proper officials or
agencies or that a bond or other security has been furnished assuring
installation of the required improvements. A copy of the final plat on
permanent reproducible material shall be submitted.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.028 PLAN AND PROFILE; UTILITY PLANS.
   A plan view of the streets shall be drawn to scale of one inch equals 50
feet. The plan view shall show the proposed road, street or alley alignments,
right-of-way and pavement widths, centerlines, bearings, stationing, curve or
radius data, existing and proposed drainage, and utilities. Any other
significant feature or factor shall also be shown on the plan. The centerline
of road, street or alley construction shall coincide with the centerline of the
right-of-way. Any changes from same shall be at the discretion of the Village
Engineer or his or her representative.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.029 FILING.
   (A)   The final map shall be filed with the Commission not later than 12
months after the date of approval of the preliminary plan; otherwise it will be
considered void unless an extension is requested by the developer and granted
by the Commission in writing. The final plat shall be considered officially
filed after it is examined by the Village Engineer and is found to be in full
compliance with the formal provisions of this chapter. The final plat shall be
filed at least ten working days prior to the meeting at which it is to be
considered.
   (B)   The developer shall submit a statement of the proposed use of lots,
staging type of residential building with number of proposed dwelling units;
type of business or industry, so that the effect of the development on traffic,
fire hazards or congestion of population can be determined; source of water
supply, provisions for sewage disposal, drainage and flood control.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.030 APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Commission shall take action on the final plat within 30 days
after the same has been officially filed as stated in R.C. § 711.05; otherwise
said plat shall be deemed to have been approved. The certificate of the
Commission as to the date of the submission of the plat for approval, and the
failure to take action within such time, shall be sufficient in lieu of the
written endorsement or evidence of approval herein required. If disapproved,
the grounds for disapproval of the final plat shall be stated on the record of
the Commission, including the reference to the regulation violated by the plat,
and a copy of said record of the Commission shall be forwarded to the
developer. The developer shall make necessary correction and resubmit the final
plat within 30 days to the Commission for its final approval.
   (B)   The developer shall be notified of the final approval of the plat by
the Commission and shall then present the plat to the Council for approval.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.031 RECORDING OF FINAL PLAT.
   After the final plat has been approved by the Planning Commission, the
Village Engineer and where necessary by the Village Council, and the necessary
approvals endorsed in writing thereon, together with evidence of title, and
evidence of pre-payment of property taxes for all land to be dedicated to
public use, it may then be filed for recording in the Office of the County
Recorder, as required by law.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.032 LOT SPLIT DEED TRANSFERS.
   Whenever any transfer is to be made of parcels as described in §
152.005(C), the party or parties desiring to make the transfer shall submit a
sketch thereof to the Planning Commission. If the division conforms to
appropriate standards, the responsible official may stamp same “Approved, No
Plat Required”, and attach his or her signature, and the appropriate transfer
may then be recorded. However, if the owner of the property does not agree with
any of the requirements specified by the Planning Commission, he or she may
then appeal to the Council for approval for recording and such approval must be
obtained before the transfer can be recorded. No preliminary or final plat
other than the rough sketch of the division shall be required and none of the
improvements described in §
152.004 shall be required for the transfer.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 152.045 GENERAL.
   (A)   The regulations in this section shall control the manner in which
lots, streets and other elements of a subdivision are arranged on the land.
These design controls shall help ensure convenient and safe streets, the
creation of usable lots, the provision of space for public utilities and the
reservation of land for recreational uses. The planning of attractive and
functional neighborhoods shall be promoted, minimizing the undesirable features
of unplanned, haphazard growth.
   (B)   The arrangement, character, extent, width and location of major,
secondary and minor streets or highways shall conform to the recommendations of
the Commission, based on existing and planned streets, topography, public
safety and convenience, proposed land uses and such specifications as the
Village Council may adopt or the Village Engineer may require.
   (C)   The Planning Commission and appropriate village officials have the
responsibility for reviewing the design of each future subdivision early in its
design development. The Planning Commission shall ensure that all the
requirements of this section are met.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.046 STREET DESIGN AND ARRANGEMENT.
   (A)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provisions
for the continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining areas where
applicable (or their proper projection where adjoining land is not subdivided)
insofar as they may be deemed necessary for public requirements. Every
subdivision shall have access to a public right-of-way.
   (B)   Street and alley arrangements shall be such as to not cause hardship
to owners of adjoining property when they plat their own land and seek to
provide convenient access to it. Residential streets shall be so designed as to
discourage through traffic, but off-set streets should be avoided.
   (C)   The angle of intersection between minor streets and major streets
should not vary by more than ten degrees from a right angle. All other streets
should intersect each other as near to a right angle as possible.
   (D)   The minimum curb radius at intersections, subject to the approval of
the Village Engineer, shall be 20 feet. Curbs shall be required for all areas.
The curb and gutter shall be poured so as to be combined.
   (E)   Residential streets shall be designed to discourage through traffic
which may otherwise use secondary or major highways, and whose origin and
destination are not within the subdivision. Residential streets extending for
considerable distances, parallel to any secondary or major street, should be
avoided unless otherwise deemed appropriate by the Commission, giving
consideration to the overall traffic flow.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.047 STREET ALIGNMENT.
   (A)   Vertical. For main thoroughfares, profile grades shall be connected by
vertical curves of a minimum length in multiples of 50 feet, approximately
equivalent to 20 times the algebraic difference between the rates of grade,
expressed in feet per hundred; for secondary and minor streets and alleys, 15
times.
   (B)   Design standards for visibility. The normal subdivision street shall
be designed for a speed of 35 mph (through streets) or 25 mph (no outlet
residential streets). The standards for the design speed shall be in accordance
with the Ohio Department of Transportation Location and Design Manual, latest
edition, in regard to the following design conditions:
      (1)   Maximum degree of curvature;
      (2)   Minimum horizontal visibility;
      (3)   Minimum vertical visibility; and
      (4)   Minimum intersection sight distance. Note that the minimum
intersection sight distance shall apply to the road being entered, where speeds
may be as high as 55 mph.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.048 STREET TYPE AND WIDTH.
   (A)   The road right-of-way widths shall be not less than the following:
Street Classification Right-of-Way Method Pavement Width Excluding
                                          Curb and Gutter
                                                           Pavement Width
Street Classification                  Right-of-Way Method Excluding
                                                           Curb and Gutter
Collector                              60 feet             12 feet lane + 9
                                                           feet parking lane
Expressway                             200 - 250 feet      Varies: 12 feet/lane
Freeway                                200 - 300 feet      Varies: 12 feet/lane
Local street                                                
   Low density ( 1 - 2 units/acre)  50 feet             10 feet lane + 7
                                                           feet parking lane
   Medium density (3 - 4 units/acre)60 feet             10 feet lane + 8
                                                           feet parking lane
   High density (more than 4 units/ 60 feet             11 feet lane + 8
acre)                                                      feet parking lane
Major thoroughfare                     1,000 feet          Varies: 12 feet/lane
 
   (B)   At least one parking lane shall be constructed on all streets unless
otherwise approved by the Planning Commission. Variations from the above street
widths will be only as approved by the Commission. Streets shall be constructed
in the center of the right-of-way.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.049 SPECIAL STREET TYPES.
   The following requirements shall apply to special types of streets.
   (A)   Cul-de-sac streets. Cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed 200 feet in
length. The closed end shall be a paved turnaround having a minimum radius of
40 feet to the outward pavement edge, and a radius of 50 feet to the right-of-
way line. The minimum frontage or lot width shall be measured at the required
building setback line on any cul-de-sac.
   (B)   Dead-end streets. Permanent dead-end streets shall not be permitted.
Temporary dead-end streets shall be permitted only as part of a continuing
street plan, and only if a temporary turn-around satisfactory to the Commission
in design, maintenance and removal is provided, and the temporary street has a
surfaced turning area equal in diameter to two times the width of said street
at its termination. Dead-end streets longer than 200 feet shall be permitted
only after approval by the Commission.
   (C)   Dedication of half-streets. Dedication of half-streets shall not be
permitted. Where a dedicated half-street exists adjacent to the tract being
subdivided, both halves shall be platted.
   (D)   Access streets. Where a subdivision adjoins a major thoroughfare, a
marginal access street shall be designed to control access to the thoroughfare
from lots fronting on it. Access is controlled in the interest of public safety
and to maintain the design capacity of the street system. Points of access to
the thoroughfare shall be spaced at a minimum interval of 1,320 feet. A
planting strip having a minimum width of 20 feet shall be provided between the
pavement of the thoroughfare and the pavement of the marginal access street.
The minimum width of the marginal access right-of-way shall be 28 feet.
   (E)   State highways. Before any subdivision plat is approved affecting any
land within 300 feet of the centerline of a proposed new highway or a highway
for which changes are proposed, as described in the certification to local
officials by the State Transportation Director, or any land within a radius of
500 feet from the point of intersection of said centerline with any public road
or highway, the Planning Commission shall give notice, by registered or
certified mail, to the Transportation Director. The Planning Commission shall
not give final approval of the subdivision plat for 120 days from the date the
notice is received by the Transportation Director. If the Transportation
Director notifies the Planning Commission that he or she shall proceed to
acquire the land needed, then the Planning Commission shall refuse to approve
the subdivision plat. If the Transportation Director notifies the Planning
Commission that acquisition at this time is not in the public interest or upon
the expiration of the 120-day period or any extension thereof agreed upon by
the Highway Director and the property owner, the Planning Commission may if the
application is in conformance with all provisions of this regulation, approve
the subdivision plat.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.050 STREET GRADES.
   (A)   Street grade shall be in conformance with Table 203-1 of the ODOT
Location and Design Manual or the latest update thereof, except that the 2%
steeper grade as provided for in Footnote B shall not be permitted.
   (B)   No street grade shall be less than 0.4%, and in no case shall a street
grade be more than 3% within 100 feet of an intersection, except under unusual
topographical conditions which shall be subject to the approval of the Village
Engineer and the Village Street Superintendent.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.051 STREET NAMES.
   New names are required for new streets; the names shall meet with the
approval of the Planning Commission. No name shall be similar in spelling or
pronunciation to that of any existing street in a postal zone.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
 § 152.052 ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS.
   (A)   The approval of a plat by the Village Council shall not be deemed to
be an acceptance of any public street, road or highway dedicated in such plat
until accepted in the manner provided herein.
   (B)   The Village Engineer shall check the construction by stages, and when
the Engineer finds that such street is constructed in accordance with the
specifications set forth in the approved plat and that such street is in good
repair, then such finding, endorsed on the approved plat plan, shall constitute
an acceptance of the street for public use by the village.
   (C)   Appropriate language in accordance with the provisions of this
subsection is required to be included on all plats presented to the Planning
Commission and Village Council for approval, acceptance and subsequent
recording.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.053 STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of street
intersections.
   (A)   Streets shall be designed to intersect at 90 degrees, more or less.
Streets shall remain in the right angle of intersections for no less than 50
feet beyond the point of intersection.
   (B)   Sight distance is a direct function of the design speed which greatly
influence the level of distance must always be provided as a safety
requirement. Passing and decision sight distances influence the operational
capability which provides the selected level of service. Provision for adequate
sight distance on rural thoroughfares where both high speeds and high volumes
can be factors is complex. The developer shall comply with the Ohio Department
of Transportation design standards.
   (C)   Multiple intersections involving junctions of more than town streets
shall be avoided.
   (D)   The minimum pavement radius at intersections shall be 30 feet; the
minimum right-of-way radius shall be 20 feet.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.054 ALLEYS.
   Alleys shall be avoided in single-family and two-family districts. They may,
however, be required in multiple dwelling developments where they shall have a
minimum width of 20 feet. Alleys are required in the rear of all commercial and
industrial lots, if no other provisions are made for adequate service access or
parking. The right-of-way in such alleys shall be not less than 45 feet and
dead-end alleys shall not be permitted.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.055 EASEMENTS.
   Easements of at least 20 feet in width, centered along rear or side lot
lines shall be provided where necessary for sanitary sewers, as mains, water
mains, television cables, electric lines and storm sewers. Easements shall also
be provided, as required by the Planning Commission, along every public water
course, drainage channel or stream within a subdivision. In general, for any
open ditches, easements shall be at least 30 feet wide. The establishment of
these easements does not, in itself, provide for public maintenance of these
facilities.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.056 BLOCKS.
   The following regulations shall govern the design and layout of blocks.
   (A)   No block shall be longer than 1,320 feet, nor less than 500 feet,
except in unusual circumstances. Where a subdivision adjoins a major highway,
the greater dimension of the block shall front along such major highway to
minimize the number of points of ingress and egress.
   (B)   Irregularly shaped blocks, those indented for cul-de-sacs or loop
streets, and those containing interior parks or playgrounds, shall be approved
by the Commission when properly designed and located.
   (C)   Where blocks are over 900 feet in length, a crosswalk easement not
less than ten feet in width, at or near the midpoint of the block, shall be
required, if necessary, to provide proper access to schools, recreation areas,
shopping centers or other facilities.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.057 LOTS.
   (A)   The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all subdivision lots
will provide satisfactory and desirable building sites, properly related to
topography and the character of surrounding developments.
   (B)   All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to street lines and
radial to curved street lines, except where a variation to this rule will
provide a better street and lot layout. Lots with double frontage, except when
paralleling major highways shall be avoided.
   (C)   No lot shall have less area or width than is required by the Zoning
Code for the area in which the lot is located.
   (D)   No lot shall be subdivided after acceptance of the original plat,
except as provided in this chapter.
   (E)   A larger than minimum lot size may be required when less than ideal
topography or soil conditions exist for a building site. The larger than
minimum building lot size judgment will be made by the Planning Commission,
based on input from the Village Engineer and others who are familiar with the
soil types.
   (F)   No corner lot shall have a width at the building line of less than 75
feet. Either of the two sides of a corner lot may be designated the front of
the lot; provided the rear yard shall always be opposite the front so
designated.
   (G)   The corners of lots at street intersections shall have a curve with a
minimum radius of 20 feet to the intersection of the property line.
   (H)   Every lot or tract shall be along, front on or abut an existing public
road. That portion of the lot extending to the public road shall have a minimum
width of 25 feet, and shall be located on a road frontage that can be developed
for access by a conventional automobile. A dedicated private driveway may
provide legal access to a tract or lot if the dedicated private driveway fronts
on or abuts an existing public road.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.058 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   Consideration shall be given to the allocation of areas suitably located and
of adequate size for playgrounds, school sites, parks and other outdoor
recreational facilities as indicated in the Comprehensive Plan, and to be made
available by one or more of the following methods:
   (A)   Dedication to public uses;
   (B)   Reservation of land for the use of property owners by deeds or
covenants;
   (C)   (1)   Reservation for acquisition by public agency within a period of
three years. Said reservation shall be made in such a manner as to provide for
release of the land to the developer in the event no public agency proceeds
with the purchase.
      (2)   Due regard shall be shown for preserving outstanding cultural,
historical or natural features such as scenic spots, water courses or
exceptionally fine groves of trees. Dedication to and acceptance by a public
agency is usually the best means of assuring their preservation. At least 10%
of the subdivision, exclusive of streets, shall ordinarily be allocated to open
space.
   (D)   Easements along streams. Whenever any stream or important surface
drainage course is located within the area being subdivided, the developer
shall provide a permanent easement of sufficient width dedicated to the proper
authority for the purpose of widening, deepening, relocating, improving or
protecting the stream for drainage or public use.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.059 FLOOD PRONE AREAS.
   The Planning Commission will scrutinize proposed subdivisions which are
located in flood prone areas, such as, but not limited to:
   (A)   Floodplain areas which are identified on the flood insurance rate
maps. A floodplain development permit is required to develop within floodplain
limits, and development may be prohibited in some areas;
   (B)   Areas located in the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers flowage easement.
The developer must provide a letter of review and comment from the Army Corps
which explains their position on the proposed subdivision; and
   (C)   Flood prone areas outside the FIRM regulatory areas will be reviewed
based on local engineering studies or approval of the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers. If the subdivision is located in an area having poor drainage or
other adverse physical characteristics, the Commission may approve the
subdivision; provided the developer agrees to perform such improvements as will
render the area safe for the intended use. In lieu of the improvements, the
developer shall furnish a surety bond or certified check covering the cost of
the required improvements, subject, however, to the approval of the Village
Engineer and such other authorities as the Engineer may designate.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.060 MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   A manufactured home subdivision shall contain a minimum of four acres
and shall be developed in the same manner as required for any subdivision.
   (B)   The development standards for a manufactured home subdivision shall be
the same as the requirements for single-family dwelling subdivisions, providing
that all requirements set forth in the Zoning Code must be met.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.061 TREES.
   Street trees, when planted, shall be located outside of the street right-of-
way, of any sewer or water easements that may be adjacent to the street right-
of-way, and planted in such a manner as not to impair visibility at any street
intersection or driveway and not to hinder the maintenance and plowing of the
street. Developers should retain existing trees wherever possible and plant
additional trees at strategic locations throughout the subdivision. A list of
trees recommended for street planting can be obtained from the County Soil and
Water Conservation Office.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.062 SOILS STATEMENT.
   Soil conditions are an important concern when reviewing a proposed
subdivision. The County Soil and Water Conservation District may be asked their
opinion on the ramifications of soil conditions for a proposed subdivision.
Their input is presented at a subdivision review meeting with the Commission.
Soil and water related problems can be averted if the developer and the
Commission apply precautionary development standards to the project in response
to the County Soil and Water District recommendations.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
MINIMUM REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.075 GENERAL.
   (A)   These minimum required improvements shall be required in all areas
except where special provisions are made for hillside areas in excess of 15% of
slope. Any exceptions to the provisions in this section which are made for
hillside development are specified in §§
152.095 through
152.107.
   (B)   Prior to the granting of final approval, the developer shall have
installed or shall have furnished a performance bond for the amount of the
estimated construction cost of the ultimate installation of improvements listed
and described herein. The performance bond or cash deposit submitted to the
appropriate officer will assure the municipality that the developer, his or her
heirs, successors and assigns, their agent or servants will comply with all
applicable terms, conditions, provisions and requirements of this chapter; will
faithfully perform and complete the work of constructing and installing such
facilities or improvements in accordance with such laws and regulations. Before
said bond is accepted, it shall be approved by the proper administrative
officials. The term of this bond shall extend 12 months beyond completion date
of project.
   (C)   The developer shall submit a set of construction plans for the
improvement of the road, street or alley, and utility plans, prepared by a
registered professional engineer, where applicable. The construction plans
shall include title of plan, typical sections, plan and profile view,
miscellaneous engineering details and estimate of quantities. Cross-sections
will be submitted upon request by the Village Engineer. All typical sections
and major engineering details to be used on any particular road, street, or
alley shall be approved in advance by the Village Engineer or his or her
representative before completion of the plans. When the developer submits for
approval a construction plan for street improvements for a part of a proposed
subdivision area, preliminary street grades, proposed drainage facilities and
proposed utility extensions for the entire subdivision area shall also be
presented.
   (D)   When deemed desirable, the Village Engineer or his or her
representative may require the construction or vacation of part or all of any
intersecting roads, streets or alleys in order to assure that no hardship or
added expense be endured by abutting property owners, the township or
municipality at some future date.
   (E)   All of the required improvements shall be made in full compliance with
the specifications for each of the various units of work as required by the
Village Engineer or the County Board of Health, according to the nature of the
improvements. Upon final approval of the construction plans, a copy on
permanent reproducible material, and five sets of all construction and utility
plans shall be submitted to the municipality.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.076 INSPECTION.
   During construction and after completion of the required improvements, the
developer shall request, in writing, the inspection of improvements by the
responsible officials. Upon completion of all improvements, the developer shall
request, in writing, a final inspection by the appropriate agency. All
inspection fees and costs are charged to the developer.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.077 FEES AND PRE-CONSTRUCTION NOTIFICATION.
   The developer shall pay to the appropriate agency a fee as prescribed by
such agency to defray the costs of inspection, engineering services or other
services in connection with inspection and supervision of the improvements
required herein. The developer shall notify the responsible agency at least one
week in advance of the start of construction work and the department inspection
fee shall be paid prior to the start of such construction.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.078 MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Unless otherwise indicated on the plans, with advance approval of the
Village Engineer or his or her representative, materials shall meet the
requirement and shall be in accordance with the Material Details of the current
volume of the Construction and Material Specifications, State of Ohio,
Department of Highways. The materials will be referred to by material grade or
section number of the same current volume.
   (B)   The specifications of the municipality shall in all respects govern
all construction work. The work shall be done under municipal supervision and
inspection. It shall be completed within the time fixed or agreed upon by the
Village Engineer.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Village Engineer to inform the
person or persons making improvements, to the effect that, whenever the
required improvements are properly made or otherwise secured as hereinafter
mentioned, said Engineer will pass upon and recommend to the Planning
Commission that said plat, if otherwise conforming to these platting rules and
regulations, be approved.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.079 UTILITY AND STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Water supply.
      (1)   Public water supply. Where public water supply is available as
determined by the Commission, the developer shall construct a system of water
mains and connect with such public water supply and provide a connection for
each lot. Any area or subdivision of 20 or more single-family housing units
which are not hooked up to public water and sewer must have a central water
system and central sewerage system, approved by the Ohio Department of Health
and the municipality.
      (2)   Test wells. Where public water supply is not required by the State
Department of Health or Ohio EPA, at least one test well shall be made in the
area being platted for each 100 lots or each 25 acres of area, whichever is the
smaller. In cases where copies of the logs of existing wells located within the
area being platted are available, this may be submitted in lieu of making test
wells.
      (3)   Location and construction of individual private wells. Test wells
shall be at least 25 feet in depth and shall produce safe potable drinking
water at a rate of not less than five gallons per minute per family.
      (4)   Copy of log. A copy of the well log, which shall include the name
and address of the well driller, shall be submitted with the plat to the
Planning Commission. Individual private wells shall meet the minimum standards
of the state and County Board of Health. All abandoned wells shall be sealed in
a manner that will render them water-tight as prescribed by the County Health
Department. In all cases where it has been determined that individual water
supplies from private wells are not feasible, a public water distribution
system will be required.
   (B)   Sanitary sewers.
      (1)   If a subdivision can be reasonably served by the extension of an
existing public sanitary sewer, as determined by the Commission, the developer
shall provide a system of sanitary sewer mains and shall provide lateral
connections for each lot. Any area of subdivision of 20 or more housing units
must have a central sewerage system, approved by the State Department of Health
and accepted by the Village Council. Where a public sanitary sewer is not
reasonably accessible, the owner or the developer may provide a package plat
for the group, or septic tanks for each lot; provided that such package plants
or septic tanks are installed in accordance with state and village or local
Board of Health requirements. Whenever main lines are installed, sewer and
water shall be extended to property lines. Connections to public sanitary sewer
lines shall be subject to the approval of and according to the specifications
of the Village Engineer.
      (2)   Eight-inch sewer lines will normally be required, but the Planning
Commission may at its discretion require larger lines where necessary or
desirable, in which case, the excess cost of the larger lines shall be home by
the municipality.
      (3)   In the event the installation of individual disposal systems shall
be considered, the absorption ability of the soil, surface drainage and
topography shall be the criteria for determining whether or not the
installation of individual septic tank disposal systems is permissible. Group
sewage disposal systems shall meet the requirements of the State Department of
Health as prescribed by the laws of the state.
   (C)   Drainage.
      (1)   All necessary facilities, including underground pipe, inlets, catch
basins or open drainage ditches shall be installed to provide for the adequate
disposal of subsurface and surface water and maintenance of natural drainage
courses. All storm drainage facilities within the subdivision shall connect to
an adequate drainage outlet. A drainage plan shall be submitted simultaneously
with the plat of any subdivision, showing the proposed scheme of surface
drainage.
      (2)   All drainage improvements shall be designed and constructed to
current ODOT standards; existing downstream drainage structures shall be
evaluated as to adequacy and replaced when necessary. If new point drainage
sources are created or the amount of drainage is increases, a drainage easement
for downstream properties for a length of 500 feet will be required. The best
available technology shall be used to minimize off-site storm water run-off. If
retention basins or similar measures are necessary and utilized, provision for
maintenance shall be the developer’s responsibility. Storm water management
shall follow the standards established in water management and sediment control
for urbanized areas.
      (3)   When natural drainage channels intersect any street right-of-way,
it shall be the responsibility of the developer to have satisfactory bridges
and culverts designed and constructed. Where culverts are required, the
following requirements shall be observed:
         (a)   Where drainage ditches are permitted, they must have at least
0.20 of a foot grade per 100 feet, or otherwise approved;
         (b)   If the permitted roadway ditch is in excess of 2%, an approved
type gutter using concrete, stone, sod or underground drainage must be used,
with sufficient inlets spaced so as to keep the volume of water at a low level.
All culverts shall extend across the entire right-of-way width of the proposed
road. The cover over the culvert and its capacity shall be approved by the
Village Engineer. The minimum diameter of a culvert pipe shall be 12 inches.
Head walls, depending on existing drainage conditions, may be required;
         (c)   Driveway culverts shall have a minimum length of 20 feet.
Driveway culverts shall be double strength vitrified pipe of equal, with sealed
joints having a diameter of not less than 12 inches. When special drainage
designs are necessary, such as masonry or concrete structures and the like,
such designs in detail must be submitted to the Village Engineer for approval
in advance of the completion of the construction plans. The driveway culverts
shall be laid so as to maintain the flow line of the ditch or gutter. Head
walls may be required; and
         (d)   All trenches for water lines, sewers, utilities and the like,
within the pavement or driveway areas, shall be backfilled with grit to a point
within a minimum of six inches of the subgrade and to a point three feet
outside the pavement edge or three feet back of curb, if curb is used.
   (D)   Street improvements. All streets and thoroughfares shall be graded to
their full width, including side slopes, and improved in accordance with the
standards outlined or referred to in this chapter.
      (1)   Generally. In certain instances, especially where a commercial area
is involved and no off-street parking facilities are provided and no parking is
permitted on the street at any time, a parking lane at least eight feet wide on
each side of the street and paved to the satisfaction of and in accordance with
the specifications approved by the Village Engineer may be required in addition
to the necessary number of lanes for moving traffic. Where pavement widths
greater than those specified above are necessary, provision of same shall be
discussed with the public officials having jurisdiction over the planning and
construction of public ways to determine whether or not public expenditures for
such additional width can or should be made simultaneously with the developer’s
improvement program. The Planning Commission has the authority to approve
streets to be narrower in a cluster development.
      (2)   Subgrade. The subgrade shall be free of sod, vegetation matter or
other similar material. Where poor subsurface drainage conditions exist,
adequate drainage shall be installed. The subgrade shall be rolled with a
roller of not less than seven pounds in weight. Sub-base grade tolerance shall
be not more than one inch in 16 feet. Sub-base construction shall be subject to
the approval of the Village Engineer.
      (3)   Street base and surface courses. Local residential streets shall be
constructed with one of the following typical sections:
         (a)   Six-inch plain Portland cement concrete - ODOT Item 452;
         (b)   Three-inch aggregate base - ODOT Item 304;
         (c)   One and one-half inch asphalt concrete surface course - ODOT
Item 404;
         (d)   Three and one-half inch asphalt concrete base course - ODOT Item
301;
         (e)   Prime coat at 0.4 gallon/square yard - ODOT Item 408;
         (f)   Five-inch aggregate base - ODOT Item 304;
         (g)   One and one-half inch asphalt concrete surface course - ODOT
Item 404;
         (h)   Five-inch asphalt concrete base course - ODOT Item 301;
         (i)   Prime coat at 0.4 gallon/square yard - ODOT Item 408;
         (j)   Three-inch aggregate base - ODOT Item 304; or
         (k)   Pavement design and construction shall be approved by the
Village Engineer. The above pavement compositions are intended to be typical
and may be varied only with the approval of the Village Engineer.
   (E)   Curbs and gutters.
      (1)   The requirement of curbs or curbs and gutters will vary in
accordance with the character of the area and the density of development
involved as determined by the Planning Commission. In urban or suburban areas,
curbs are necessary to control storm water runoff and to clearly define driving
and parking areas.
      (2)   Curbs shall be required on all streets designed to serve areas
where the existing or anticipated net residential density of the area
surrounding the proposed subdivision equals or exceeds three families per not
acre.
      (3)   Where residential lot frontages are less than 85 feet in commercial
developments or where other similar intensive urban uses exist or are
anticipated, curbs shall ordinarily be required. The installation of curbs may
be required on major highways if such construction is deemed necessary for
public safety.
      (4)   Where curbs exist on abutting properties, their extension will
ordinarily be required throughout the proposed subdivision. Where curbs are not
required, adequate gutters shall be graded and protected by seeding or
appropriate surfacing.
      (5)   Curbs shall be combined with gutters built of concrete. Curbs,
combined curbs and gutters and graded gutters shall be constructed in
conformance with the current Construction and Material Specifications of the
Department of Highways, State of Ohio, as they pertain to this type of
improvement.
   (F)   Driveways. The maximum grade on driveways shall not exceed 10%.
Driveway pipe shall be concrete pipe except that other than gutter may be extra
strength vitrified pipe or equal with minimum diameter of 12 inches and a
minimum length of 20 feet. The developer shall place approved drainage
structures under intersecting roads, drives, lanes or property entrances and at
other locations where required.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.080 UTILITIES AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   Electrical service, gas mains and other utilities should be provided within
each subdivision. Whenever such facilities are reasonably accessible and
available, they may be required to be installed within the area as required.
Trees may be planted along the streets outside the right-of-way. Telephone,
electric power and street lighting wires, conduits or cables may be required to
be constructed underground.
   (A)   Sidewalks. Concrete sidewalks having a minimum width of four feet and
having minimum thickness of four inches shall be installed on both sides of all
new streets; provided, however, that the Planning Commission may waive this
requirement and allow sidewalks along only one side of any new street where in
its sole and absolute discretion it determines that sidewalks on both sides of
such new street are not necessary. In areas where the predominant lot width is
100 feet or more, the Planning Commission at its discretion may waive the
requirement for any sidewalks.
   (B)   Street name signs. Street name signs as well as traffic signs, of a
type similar to those in use throughout the municipality, shall be erected by
the municipality at all intersections at the cost of the developer.
   (C)   Street lighting. Plans for street lights shall be submitted to the
Village Engineer for approval.
   (D)   Trench backfilling. All trenches for water lines, sewers, utilities
and the like, within the pavement or driveway areas shall be backfilled with
granular material to a point within a minimum of six inches of the sub grade
and to a point three feet outside the pavement edge or three feet back of curb,
if curb is used.
   (E)   Burying. All electric, telephone and other utility lines shall be
buried a minimum of three feet below the finished grade of each lot in the
subdivision.
   (F)   Main water lines. All main water lines should be located a minimum of
nine feet from the inside of the curb.
   (G)   Sewer lines. All sewer lines should be located in the center of the
street or thoroughfare servicing each lot in said subdivision.
   (H)   Installing at same time. All water, sewers and gas service lines to
each lot shall be installed at the same time as the mains are so installed.
   (I)   Provisions for maintenance and operation. Where the subdivision
contains sewers, sewage treatment plants, water supply systems, park areas,
street trees or other physical facilities necessary or desirable for the
welfare of the area and which are of common use of benefit and which are of
such character that the municipality or other public agency does not desire to
maintain them, provisions shall be made by trust agreements, which are a part
of the deed restrictions and which are acceptable to the Planning Commission
for the proper and continuous maintenance and supervision of such facilities by
the lot owners in the subdivisions.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.081 IMPROVEMENTS BOND.
   The improvements and standards described in §§
152.045 through
152.062 and
152.075 through
152.082 have been adopted by Village Council, and no final subdivisions shall
be approved unless the improvements listed in the sections of this chapter have
been satisfactorily completed prior to such approval. In the event that the
improvements listed in the sections of this chapter have not been completed
prior to requested final plat approval, the developer shall file with the Water
and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator a surety bond, cashier’s check
or certified check for the amount estimated to be the construction costs as
determined by and approved by the Village Engineer, the purpose of such bond
guaranteeing to the municipality that such improvements will be constructed and
completed in a satisfactory manner and within a period specified by the Village
Engineer, which period shall not exceed one year beyond plat approval. Said
surety bond or check shall be approved by legal counsel for the village, and
shall be made payable to and enforceable by the municipality. Upon satisfactory
completion of each of the improvements required, an approval of the same in
writing by the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Engineer, and with the
presentation of letters of certification of payment in full of all contractors,
subcontractors, suppliers of materials, engineers, surveyors and all inspection
fees and other fees incurred by the installation of the improvements by the
developer, a portion of the bonds/checks may be released in writing by the
Fiscal Officer as each portion of the infrastructure required is completed to
the satisfaction of the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village Administrator
and the Village Engineer. Once all of the improvements have been completed and
approved as provided herein, then any remaining bonds may be released in
writing by the Fiscal Officer, and any remaining cashier’s checks or certified
checks may be returned to the developer.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.082 GUIDELINES FOR WATER AND SEWER LINES.
   (A)   All water lines and service lines shall be of a minimum depth of four
and one-half feet below the finished grade of each street or lot within said
subdivision.
   (B)   Sizes of pipe shall be as determined by the Water and Sewer
Superintendent/Village Administrator.
   (C)   All pipe shall be claw ductile pipe, or the equivalent thereof, with
two wedges in each joint.
   (D)   All service lines from the main line to the curb box shall be copper.
   (E)   Corporation stops and curb stops shall be Mueller, or the equivalent
thereof.
   (F)   Fire hydrants and valves shall be Eddy hydrants and valves, or the
equivalent thereof.
   (G)   There shall be a valve on each hydrant.
   (H)   All hydrants shall be break-away pumper hydrants or the equivalent
thereof.
   (I)   All valve boxes shall be of cast iron.
   (J)   All taps shall be from one-half inch to two-thirds inch from the
bottom of each line. No toptapping will be permitted.
   (K)   There shall be no tapping on the top of each line.
   (L)   All main line valves shall be at the end of the street.
   (M)   All meters in residence and businesses shall be Rockwell magnetic
meters with outside meter readers, or the equivalent thereof.
   (N)   The amount of fire hydrants shall be determined by the Commission,
with the advice and consent of the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator.
   (O)   Sewer line pipe shall be vitrified pipe bell or slip joint, or the
equivalent thereof.
   (P)   All sewer lines shall be air tested for leaks according to
specifications.
   (Q)   All manholes shall be cement-casted.
   (R)   No waste unsuitable for the existing sewer plant shall be discharged
into sewer lines.
   (S)   All industries that have, or expect to have, grease waste shall have a
grease trap.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
HILLSIDE DESIGN STANDARDS AND MINIMUM REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.095 GENERAL.
   A hillside area as referred to herein be defined as one with an average
slope of 15% or more. These regulations apply to all hillside areas with an
added limitation that areas with a slope 40% or greater are considered
extremely rugged, and development limited to lots of two acres or more, and
require the approval of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.096 DETERMINATION OF AVERAGE SLOPE.
   The average slope for any hillside development shall be determined by the
Planning Commission during the time of preliminary subdivision design.
Determination will be on an area-by-area basis with each lot sized according to
the average topographic change falling within each area.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.097 MINIMUM LOT REGULATIONS PER FAMILY.
   The minimum lot regulations per family shall be used to determine minimum
lot area in thousand square feet once the average percent of slope is
determined by the Planning Commission. Example for the use of this table is for
a lot whose natural ground slope is 18%, the indicated lot area is 12,000
square feet and the indicated average width is 85 feet. Rounding should be made
to the nearest five-foot intervals.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.098 MINIMUM SLOPE REGULATIONS REQUIREMENTS.
 
Percent of                         Straight Curb                 Streets Right-
Slope Pavement  Setback Side Yard  and Gutter    Type of Walkway of-Way (One
                                                                 Side Only)
Group 1         20’   10% of lot Yes           3’ graded area40’ 20’
31%-over                width
Group 2 27%-30% 25’   10% of lot Yes           3’ graded area40’ 20’
                        width
Group 3 15%-26% 25’   10% of lot Yes           Walkway on      50’ 24’
                        width                    uphill side
 
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.099 GRADING PLAN.
   Grading plan shall show contour lines at five-foot intervals where average
slopes exceed 15% and at two-foot intervals where the average slope is less
than 15%. Elevations are to be based on sea level datum (USGS), if available.
Datum for contours shall be indicated on the map.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.100 GRADING CONTROLS.
   The approximate lot layout and the approximate dimensions shall be shown for
each lot and each building site. Where pads are utilized or proposed for
building sites, engineering data shall show the existing topography and the
approximate finish grades, location and size of each building site and finish
grades of streets prior to consideration of the final record of survey map.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.101 CUTS AND FILLS.
   (A)   No land shall be graded, cut or filled so as to create a slope
exceeding a vertical rise of one foot for each two feet or horizontal distance
between abutting lots, unless a retaining wall of sufficient height and
thickness is provided to retain the graded bank.
   (B)   Major cuts, excavation, grading and filling, where the same materially
changes the site and its relationship with surrounding areas or materially
affects such areas, shall not be permitted if such excavation, grading and
filling will result in a slope exceeding a vertical rise of one foot for each
two feet of horizontal distance between abutting lots or between adjoining
tracts of land, except where adequate provision is made to prevent slides and
erosion by cribbing and retaining walls.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.102 COMPACTION OF FILL.
   All fill shall be compacted to a density of 90% or greater. Inspection of
fill shall be done by the Village Engineer.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.103 STREETS.
   (A)   Design and arrangement. Excessive rights-of-way may be avoided to
encourage aesthetics in road design and to avoid wide streets from destroying
trees and natural land formations.
   (B)   Street type and width.
      (1)   The minimum right-of-way width for minor streets may be 40 feet in
Class 1 and 2; and 50 feet in Class 3, respectively.
      (2)   The Planning Commission reserves the right to require a greater
width for local streets. The minimum width of local streets serving multiple
dwellings shall be 60 feet, and the pavement width shall be 36 feet.
   (C)   Alignment.
      (1)   Generally. Vertical profile grades shall be connected by vertical
curves up to 20%, but only for short, straight stretches.
      (2)   Minimum horizontal. The radii of centerline curvatures shall be no
less than 75 feet.
      (3)   Visibility requirement. Waiver of visibility requirements (§
152.047(B)) shall be given subject to the approval of the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Street grades. Waiver of vertical curve requirements (§
152.047(A)) shall be given subject to the approval of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.104 BUILDING LINES AND EASEMENTS.
   Where the subdivision areas are to be used for residential purposes the
building line shall be established according to the following table.
 
Minimum Building Setbacks
Group 1 20 feet from the right-of-way
Group 2 25 feet from the right-of-way
Group 3 25 feet from the right-of-way
 
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.105 LOTS.
   Eighty percent or more of the lots in any given subdivision shall conform to
the minimum required lot area. The average size of all lots will conform to the
minimum lot regulations. Lot area in thousands of square feet shall be
determined by charting the average natural ground slope on the minimum
regulation per family. Rounding should be made to the nearest five-foot of
frontage interval.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.106 UNDEVELOPABLE LAND.
   Land subject to flooding, land with excessive slope and land deemed by the
Planning Commission to be undesirable for development shall not be platted for
residential occupancy, nor for such other uses as may involve danger to health,
life or property or to aggravate the erosion or flood hazard. Such land shall
be set aside for compatible uses.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.107 UTILITY AND STREET IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   Sewage disposal. Where public sewers are not available and where
private sewage disposal systems will be utilized, the results of a percolation
test shall be submitted in accordance with the recommendation of the County
Health Officer.
   (B)   Street improvements.
      (1)   Width of pavement. The minimum pavement width for minor streets may
be 20 feet in Group 1; 22 feet in Group 2; and 24 feet in Group 3 type
subdivision areas.
      (2)   Curbs and gutters. Curbs shall be required on all streets designed
to serve residential areas. Curbs shall be combined with gutters and be the
straight side variety and shall have a radius of 20 feet to width of property
line.
      (3)   Driveways. The maximum grade on driveways shall not exceed 10%.
Each drive shall provide sufficient space and distance to turn around prior to
entering the street.
   (C)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Concrete sidewalks having a minimum width of four feet and having a
minimum thickness of four inches shall be installed along the uphill side of
Group 3 (15% to 26%) subdivisions.
      (2)   All subdivisions with an average natural ground slope of 27% and
over shall provide a three-foot graded area on the uphill side of the right-of-
way.
   (D)   Retaining walls. Retaining walls may be required wherever topographic
conditions warrant or where necessary to retain fill or cut slopes within the
right-of-way. Such improvements shall require the approval of the Village
Engineer.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.120 RECORDING OF PLAT.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the Office of the
Recorder of the village or have any validity until it shall have been approved
in the manner prescribed herein. In the event any such unapproved plat is
recorded, it shall be considered invalid, and the Commission shall institute
proceedings to have the plat stricken from the records of Tuscarawas County,
State of Ohio.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.121 REVISION OF PLAT AFTER APPROVAL.
   No changes, erasures, modification or revisions shall be made in any plat of
a subdivision after approval has been given by the Commission, and endorsed in
writing on the plat, unless the said plat is first resubmitted to the
Commission.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.122 FEES.
   At the time of submitting a preliminary plan, the developer shall pay a
filing fee and the amount of such fee shall be determined from the schedule as
follows:
Number of Lots in Plat Amount of Fee
Number of Lots in Plat Amount of Fee
2 - 5                  $55
6 - 10                 $75
11 - 15                $85
16 - 20                $95
21 - 25                $105
26 - 30                $115
31 - 35                $125
36 and over            $150 plus $5 for each lot in excess of 35
 
   (A)   The filing fee shall be paid in legal tender or by check or money
order made payable to the municipality.
   (B)   In the event that a plat is disapproved by the Planning Commission
before any physical inspection has been made of the site, the Commission may,
at its discretion, order that the developer be refunded the fee paid to the
municipality.
   (C)   In addition to the above filing fee, the developer shall be charged a
fee by the municipality for the cost of all determinations and inspections of
all improvements, including water and sewer line inspection costs. The
developer shall be responsible for the cost of any inspector deemed necessary
and chosen by the Village Administrator.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.123 SALE OF LAND IN SUBDIVISION.
   No owner or agent of the owner of any land located within a subdivision
shall transfer, sell, agree to sell any land by reference to, exhibition of or
by the use of a plan or plat of a subdivision before such plan or plat has been
approved and recorded in the manner prescribed herein. Any sale or transfer
contrary to the provision of this section is void. The description of such lot
or parcel by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents
used in the process of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction
from the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.124 PERMITS.
   (A)   Building or repair permits shall not be issued for any structure on a
lot in a subdivision for which a plat has not been approved and recorded in the
manner prescribed herein.
   (B)   No owner or agent of the owner of any land shall be entitled to a
permit for the installation of wells and septic tanks upon any lots in a
subdivision for which a plat has not been approved and recorded in the manner
prescribed herein.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.125 VALIDITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is for
any reason held to be unconstitutional or void, such decisions shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
VARIANCES
§ 152.135 HARDSHIP.
   Whenever the tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape, or is
surrounded by such development or unusual conditions that the strict
application of the requirements of this chapter would result in real
difficulties, substantial hardship or injustice, the Planning Commission may
vary or modify this chapter so that the developer may subdivide his or her
property in a reasonable manner; but, at the same time, the public welfare and
interest of the municipality and the surrounding area are thoroughly protected
and the general intent and spirit of this chapter are enforced.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.136 LARGE SCALE DEVELOPMENT.
   The standards and requirements of this chapter may be modified by the
Planning Commission in the case of a plan or program for a new town, a complete
community or a neighborhood unit, which in the judgment of the Planning
Commission provides adequate public space and improvements for the circulation,
recreation, light, air and service needs of the tract when fully developed and
populated, and which also provides such covenants or other legal provisions as
will assure conformity to and achievement of the plan.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.137 CONDITIONS.
   In granting variances and modifications, the Planning Commission may require
such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objective of
the standards or requirements so varied or modified.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.138 LOT DESIGNS.
   When the square foot requirements provided by this chapter and the Zoning
Code are met, and the lots under consideration provide satisfactory building
sites, innovative lot designs may be approved for lot splits by the Planning
Commission. However, in no case shall the front setbacks for said lot be less
than that specified in either this chapter or the Zoning Code, and it is
specifically understood that all proposed lots must meet or exceed the lot
width for their zoning district at the minimum building setback line required
in that zoning district by the provisions of either this chapter or the Zoning
Code.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any rule or regulation adopted by the legislative
authority of the municipality for the purpose of setting standards and
requiring and securing the construction of improvements with a subdivision or
fails to comply with any order pursuant thereto shall forfeit and pay not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000. Such sum may be recovered with costs in a civil
action brought in the Court of Common Pleas of the county in which the land
lies relative to which such violation occurred, by legal representative of the
municipality or county, in the name of such municipality or county and for the
use thereof.
   (B)   A County Recorder who records a plat contrary to the provisions of
this chapter shall forfeit and pay not less than $100 nor more than $500, to be
recovered with the costs in a civil action by the Prosecuting Attorney in the
name and for use of the county.
   (C)   Whoever, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land within or
without a municipal corporation, transfers any lot, parcel or tract of such
land from or in accordance with a plat of a subdivision before such plat has
been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, shall pay the sum of not
less than $100 nor more than $500 for each lot, parcel or tract of land so
sold. The description of such lot, parcel or tract by metes and bounds in the
deed or transfer shall not serve to exempt the seller from the forfeiture
provided in this section.
   (D)   Any person who disposes of, offers for sale or leases for a time
exceeding five years any lot or any part of a lot in a subdivision before
provisions of this chapter are complied with shall forfeit and pay the sum of
not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each lot or part of a lot so sold,
offered for sale or lease, to be recovered with costs in a civil action.
   (E)   Any person who believes he or she has been aggrieved by this chapter
or the action of the Planning Commission has all the rights of appeal as set
forth in R.C. Chapter 711 or any other applicable section of the state
statutes.
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Similar state references, see R.C. §§ 711.102, 711.121, 711.13 and 711.15
APPENDIX A: REQUIRED STATEMENTS AND SIGNATURES TO BE AFFIXED ON THE SUBDIVISION
PLAT
Situated in the County of Tuscarawas, State of Ohio, and being of Section
_______, Township __________, containing ____ acres and being the same tract as
conveyed to, and described in deed recorded in Deed Book, page _____,
Recorder’s Office, Tuscarawas County, Ohio.
The undersigned _____________________ hereby certify that the attached plat
correctly represents their “______________________” a subdivision of lots to
inclusive, do hereby accept this plat of same and dedicate to public use as
such all or parts of the roads, boulevards, cul-de-sacs, parks, planting
strips, etc., shown herein and heretofore dedicated.
The undersigned being all the owners and lien holders of the lands herein
platted further agrees that any use or improvements made on this land shall be
in conformity with all existing valid zoning, platting, health or other lawful
rules and regulations of _______________, Ohio, for the benefit of himself and
all other subsequent owners or assigns taking title from under or through the
undersigned.
Easements shown on this plat are reserved for the construction, operation,
maintenance, repair, replacement or removal of the public utility lines or
services, and for the express privilege or removing any and all trees or other
obstructions to the free use of said utilities and for providing ingress and
egress to the property for said purposes are to be maintained as such forever.
Easements are reserved where indicated on the plat for public utility purposes
above and beneath the surface of the ground.
In witness whereof ______________________ have hereunto set their hands this
___ day of ______________, 20___.
Witness   ______________________   Signed
      ______________________   Signed
Surveyed and Platted by _________________________, Civil Engineers and
Surveyors
We do hereby certify that we have surveyed the premises and prepared the
attached plat and that said plat is correct.
All dimensions are shown in feet and decimal parts thereof. Dimensions on
curves are chord measurements.
By ____________________________   Registered Surveyor #                       
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
APPENDIX B: APPROVALS OF SUBDIVISION PLAT
State of Ohio
County of Tuscarawas
Before me, a Notary Public in and for said Village, personally came
_____________________, who acknowledged the signing of the foregoing
certificate to be their voluntary act and deed and the voluntary corporate act
and deed of said corporation for the uses and purposes therein expressed.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my official seal
this ___ day of ________________, 20____.
_________________________ Notary Public, Tuscarawas County, Ohio - My
Commission Expires
Approved and accepted this ___day of _______________, 20____, the roads,
boulevards, etc., herein dedicated to public use are hereby accepted as such
for the Village of Strasburg, State of Ohio.
 
Secretary, Village Planning Commission Approved this _____ day of
                                       _________________, 20____
Village Engineer                       Approved this _____ day of
                                       _________________, 20____
County Engineer                        Approved this _____ day of
                                       _________________, 20____
Secretary, County Regional Planning    Approved this _____ day of
                                       _________________, 20____
County Sanitary Engineer               Approved this _____ day of
                                       _________________, 20____
Tuscarawas County Auditor              Transferred this _____ day of
                                       _______________, 20____
 
Filed for Record this ___day of _______________, 20___, at ________ A.M./P.M.
Recorded this ____ day of _____________, 20____, in Plat Book ______, Page No.
____.
 
County Recorder        Approved this _____ day of _________________, 20____
County Deputy Recorder Approved this _____ day of _________________, 20____
 
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
APPENDIX C: PRE-APPLICATION AND TEMPORARY PLAT CHECKLIST
The Strasburg Planning Commission requires the following to be furnished by the
developer for review by the Commission.
 Yes No N/ A
                                                                               Yes No N/
                                                                                      A
Pre-application meeting: The developer shall meet with the Planning Commission
prior to submitting the preliminary plat. The purpose is to review the content       
and effect of the Zoning   Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations and their
criteria and standards, and other requirements of the Commission.
Pre-application sketch: The developer shall submit to the Commission a legibly
drawn freehand sketch plan to a scale of 1” = 200’, containing the proposed      
name of the subdivision vicinity map, subdivision boundaries, existing and
proposed streets, lot layout, soil types and proposed drainage plan.
Application for tentative approval of preliminary plat: The developer must
submit the completed application for tentative approval of preliminary plat
together with three copies of the preliminary plan and supporting information.       
The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a qualified registered engineer,
landscape architect planner, surveyor or other qualified person.
Preliminary plat: The developer shall submit a preliminary plat of the
proposed development, conforming to the requirements of the Subdivision              
Regulations, Section 2, Page 11 ff. This plat shall be on one or more sheets,
24” x 36”, drawn at a scale of 1” = 50’.
Plat contents shall be spelled out in the Subdivision Regulations, Page 11 and
following, and shall include the date of the survey. Other requirements of the       
Commission are included in the application for tentative approval of
preliminary plat.
Filing: The developer shall provide five copies of the preliminary plat with
the Commission. The preliminary plat shall be considered officially filed on
the day it is received by the Commission (not necessarily in the village             
office), and provided all information and fees are part of the application.
This date, as established by the Commission, shall also be shown on the final
plat map.
Approval: The Commission will have the plat map and other documents checked by
the Village Engineer, the Village Administrator, the Water and Sewer
Superintendent, and such other persons as it feels necessary, and shall act on       
the preliminary plat within 30 days of its filing, unless the time is extended
by agreement with the developer.
Approval period: The approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a
maximum of one year and guarantee to the developer that the general terms            
under which the approval was granted will not be affected by any changes in
the Zoning Ordinance or the Subdivision Regulations.
 
THESE DETAILS MUST BE INCLUDED
         Names and addresses of owner(s), developer (if different from owner),
and professional persons who prepared the plat
         Date of survey used for drawings
         Proposed name of subdivision
         Proposed covenants and restrictions, including land set aside for
public use
         A drainage system map, showing contours
         Names of adjacent subdivisions and names and addresses of owners of
all adjacent properties within 200 feet
         Any buildings currently on the property
         Location of wooded areas and other natural features
         Existing contours with intervals of not more than five feet where
slope exceeds 10%, and two feet where slope is less than 10%
         Existing water courses or other drainage, wooded areas, sewers, water
mains, culverts and all utility lines
         Layout, names and widths of proposed streets, proposed utility and
water/sewer lines, and fire hydrants, showing connections with existing systems
         Dimensions and lot numbers of each lot, with proposed setback
         Sidewalk locations
         Type of curbing
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
APPENDIX D: APPLICATION FOR TENTATIVE APPROVAL TEMPORARY PLAT
Date                 Application No.                                   
1.   Name of Applicant                                                       
   Address                                                       
   Phone(s)                         
2.   Name of Surveyor or Engineer
                                                      
   Address                                                       
   Phone                            
3.   Proposed Name of Subdivision
                                                         
4.   Location                                                       
   (In addition, please attach a copy of legal description)
5.   Proposed Use                                                       
6.   Present Zoning District
                                                      
7.   Proposed Zoning Changes, if any
                                                      
8.   Area                            Number of Lots    
9.   Do you propose deed restrictions? Yes             No           (If yes,
attach a copy)
10.   List all proposed improvements and utilities and state your intention to
post a performance guarantee prior to actual installation
 
Improvement Guarantee
a.           
b.           
c.           
d.           
e.           
f.           
 
11.   List other materials submitted with this application
 
Item
a.
b.
c.
d.
 
Signature of Applicant                                                       
Signature of Surveyor/Engineer
                                                      
   (For Commission Use)
Date Received                               
Date of Commission Meeting                      
Action by Commission:   APPROVED             DISAPPROVED           
If plat disapproved, reason(s) for disapproval
Signature of Chairperson                                                       
Signature of Secretary                                                       
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
APPENDIX E: APPLICATION FOR FINAL PLAT APPROVAL
A filing fee of $         , payable to Village must accompany this application
(See Fee Schedule, Section 7.3a Subdivision Regulations)
Date          
1.   Name of Applicant                   
   Address                  
   Phone(s)                      Fax                               
2.   Name of Surveyor or Engineer                   
3.   Name of Subdivision                   
4.   Preliminary Plat Approved (Date)                  
5.   A performance bond must be issued by the developer, payable to the Village
of Strasburg, and deposited with the Zoning Inspector, in the amount of the
estimated cost required to complete the improvements.
   The bond must be signed and witnessed by the developer(s) and the escrow
agent, and include witness lines for the Village Engineer, the Village
Administrator, the Water and Sewer Superintendent, and the Village Solicitor.
   The bond shall be in the form of a Certificate of Deposit or a Pass Book
Savings Account and shall be held in escrow by the agent designated by the
Village of Strasburg.
   The developer(s) may request a partial refund of escrow monies as the
improvements are completed and approved. The developer(s) must provide a
written request directed to the Village Planning Commission for refunds of
these monies. Each request must be accompanied by a list of materials and labor
items which were expended on the improvements for which a refund is requested.
All improvements must be approved by the Village Engineer, the Village
Administrator, the Water and Sewer Superintendent, and the Village Planning
Commission.
   The escrow agent shall refund bond monies to the developer(s) upon
completion of the required improvements after the approvals by the Village
Engineer, the Village Administrator, the Water and Sewer Superintendent, and
the Village Planning Commission. Refunds must be approved in writing by the
Chair of the Planning Commission.
   Twenty percent of the total bond amount will be withheld by the village for
a period of one year after all required improvements have been completed to
guarantee the quality of workmanship and materials.
   At the end of one year, the 20% warranty amount and all accrued interest
will be returned to the developer(s) if all materials and workmanship withstand
the one year warranty period to the satisfaction of the Village Engineer, the
Village Administrator, and the Water and Sewer Superintendent. Release of funds
must be authorized in writing from the Chair of the Planning Commission.
6.   Do you propose deed restrictions?      Yes             No           
                              (If yes, attach a final copy)
7.   The proposed final plat represents all        or a portion        of the
approved preliminary plat.
8.   List all other materials submitted with this application:
   a.      
   b.      
   c.      
   d.      
   (For Commission Use Only)
Date Received             Date of Commission Meeting            
Action by Commission:    Approved          Disapproved
                              
If plat disapproved, reason(s) for disapproval:                     
Date                            
Planning Commission Chairperson
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
APPENDIX F: FINAL PLAT CHECKLIST
 Yes No N/A
                                                                                   Yes No N/
                                                                                          A
Final plat required: The developer, having received approval of the preliminary
plat of the proposed subdivision, shall submit a final plat of the subdivision as
prescribed in the Subdivision Regulations, Section 2, 3, Pages 14 and following.         
It shall conform to the boundaries of the preliminary plat and shall include only
that portion of the approved plat which the developer proposes to record and
develop at the time.
An application for approval of the final plat on forms provided, together with six
copies of the plat map and the supplemental information as specified below shall
be submitted to the Strasburg Planning Commission. This plat map shall be prepared       
by a registered surveyor and the supplemental information shall be prepared by a
qualified registered engineer or surveyor.
Rules governing improvements: The specifications for improvements shall be a set
of construction and utility plans prepared by a registered professional engineer.
The plan shall include typical sections, plans, profile views, construction
details and estimates of quantities. All typical sections and major engineering
details to be used on a particular street shall be approved in advance by the
Village Engineer before completion of the plans. The developer must install the
minimum required improvements or must have furnished a performance bond for the          
amount of the estimated construction cost of the ultimate installation of the
improvements. The bond or cash deposit will assure the village that the developer
will faithfully perform and complete the work of constructing all required
improvements in accordance with these regulations. The bond must be approved by
the proper administrative officials before it is accepted. The term of the bond
shall extend for 12 months beyond the completion date of the project.
The final plat shall be drawn in India ink on Mylar, tracing cloth or other
material of equal performance. The size shall be 20” x 20”, with a scale of 1 =    
50’. The final plat may be drawn on a larger sheet and reduced for recording.
Number each sheet in relation to all others and include an index.
The final plat shall contain the following information:                                  
   1.   Name of the subdivision, location by street address, total acreage an      
total number of lots.
   2.   Name and address of the developer(s), and of the registered surveyor  o    
prepared the final plat.
   3.   All plat boundaries, with lengths in feet and hundredths, and bearing to   
not more than half minutes. Lot dimensions shall also be shown in the same way.
   4.   Bearings and distances to nearest established street lines or other        
recognized permanent monuments, which shall be accurately described the plat.
   5.   Exact locations, right-of-way widths, building setback lines and name of   
all streets within and adjoining the plat.
   6.   Radii, arcs, points of tangency and central angles all curvilinear st et   
and radii for any rounded corners.
   7.   All easements and rights-of-way provided for public services or utilities
and for drainage of surface water, and the limitations of such rights-of-way or          
easements.
   8.   Assigned house numbers as well as lot numbers.                             
   9.   Accurate outlines of areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use or   
areas which are to be reserved for common uses of all property owners.
   10.   A list of restrictions and covenants which the developer intends to
include in the deeds to the lots in the subdivision shall accompany the final plat       
and shall be recorded prior to final plat approval. Reference to their recording
shall made on the final plat.
   11.   Certification by a registered surveyor to the effect that the plat
represents a survey made by him or her and that the monuments shown therein              
actually exist and are accurately located, and that all dimensional details are
correct.
   12.   Notarized certification by the owner(s) of his/her/their adoption of he   
plat and the dedication of the streets and other public areas.
   13.   Vicinity map of area within a one-half mile radius, including contou .    
The following supplemental information shall be supplied in addition to the              
preceding requirements:
   * Certification that all required improvements have either been installed or
that a bond or other security has been furnished assuring installation of the            
required improvements.
   * A plan view of the streets shall be drawn to a scale of 1’ = 50’. This will
show the proposed streets, street alignments, rights-of-way, pavements widths,
centerlines, bearings, stationing, curve and radius data, existing and proposed          
drainage. All other significant features or factors shall also be shown on the
plan. The centerline of streets shall coincide with the centerline of the rights-
of-way. The village Engineer may make changes at his or her discretion.
Filing: The final plat shall be filed with the Planning Commission no later than
12 months after the date of the approval of the preliminary plat; otherwise it
will be considered void, unless an extension is requested (in writing) by the
developer and granted (in writing) by the Commission. The final plat shall be            
considered officially filed after it has been examined by the Village Engineer and
is found to be in full compliance with the formal provisions of the Subdivision
Regulations. It shall be filed at least ten working days prior to the meeting at
is to be considered.
The developer shall submit a statement of the proposed use of the lots, stating
the type of residential buildings and the proposed number of dwelling units, to
determine the impact of the development on the area. The impact items of concern         
are: increased auto traffic, fire protection and hazards, population congestion,
surface water drainage and flood control.
Approval: The Commission shall take action on the final plat within 30 days after
the same has been officially filed as stated in R.C. § 711.05; otherwise said plat
shall be deemed to have been approved. The certificate of the Commission as to the
date of the submission of the plat for approval, and the failure to take action
within such time, shall be sufficient in lieu of the written endorsement or
evidence of approval herein required. If disapproved, the grounds for disapproval        
of the final plat shall be stated on the record of the Commission, including the
reference to the regulation violated by the plat, and copy of said record of the
Commission shall be forwarded to the developer. The developer shall make the
necessary correction(s) and resubmit the final plat within 30 days to the
Commission for its approval.
The developer will be notified of the final approval in writing by the Commission.
The developer shall then present the final plat to the Village Council for its           
approval.
Recording of the final plat: After the final plat has been approved by the
Commission, the Village Engineer, the Village Administrator, and the Water and
Sewer Superintendent, and their approvals endorsed in writing thereon, together          
with evidence of title, it may then be filed for recording in the office of the
Recorder of Tuscarawas County as required by law. Evidence of such filing must be
delivered by the developer to the Strasburg Village office.
Plat map sign-offs:         Developer/Owner(s)
            Surveyor
            Village Engineer                                                 
            Water/Sewer Superintendent
            Village Administrator
Deed transfers: (See Jurisdiction, Para. 3). Whenever any transfer is to be made
of parcels described in this paragraph, the party or parties desiring to make the
transfer shall submit a sketch thereof to the Planning Commission. If the division
conforms to appropriate standards, the responsible official may stamp the map,
“Approved, No Plat Required” and attach his or her signature, and the appropriate
transfer may then be recorded. However, if the owner of the property does not            
agree with any of the requirements specified by the Commission, he or she may then
appeal to the Village Council for approval for recording, and such approval must
be obtained before the transfer can be recorded. No preliminary or final plan
other than the rough sketch of the division shall be required, and none of the
improvements described in Section 4 of the Subdivision Regulations shall be
required for the transfer.
The fee as specified in the filing fee schedule, must accompany the final plat           
filing and the final plat will not be considered filed without said fee.
 
(Ord. O-28-2021, passed 11-16-2021)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority
   
153.002   Title
   
153.003   Intent and purpose
   
153.004   Compliance with regulations
   
153.005   Interpretation and conflict
   
153.006   Uses exempted from provisions of chapter
   
153.007   Authority to enact rules and procedures
   
153.008   Definitions
Districts
   
153.020   Districts
   
153.021   Open area district
   
153.022   Residential districts
   
153.023   Business districts
   
153.024   Industrial districts
   
153.025   District map
   
153.026   District boundaries
Use Regulations
   
153.040   Table of permitted and conditional uses
   
153.041   Conditional uses
   
153.042   Similar uses
   
153.043   Special provisions
Minimum Dimensional Requirements
   
153.055   Basic yard, area and height requirements for dwellings
   
153.056   Floor area requirements for dwellings
   
153.057   Basic yard, area, lot coverage and height requirements for all other
buildings other than dwellings
   
153.058   Requirements for non-residential uses
   
153.059   Exceptions to height restrictions   
   
153.060   Existing lots of record   
   
153.061   Architectural projections
   
153.062   Lot reduction prohibited
   
153.063   Multiple frontage lots
   
153.064   Accessory uses and buildings
   
153.065   Traffic visibility across corner lots
   
153.066   Planning Commission lot split decisions
   
153.067   Conversion of dwellings
   
153.068   Panhandle lots
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
153.080   Off-street parking requirements
   
153.081   Special parking provisions
   
153.082   Handicapped parking regulations
   
153.083   Off-street loading requirements
Special Provisions for Residential Uses
   
153.095   Manufactured housing development
   
153.096   Parking or storage of recreational vehicles, trailers and boats
   
153.097   Swimming pools
   
153.098   Fences and planting screens
   
153.099   Home occupations
   
153.100   Multi-family, attached single-family and cluster development
   
153.101   Marijuana adult use cannabis operators, including cultivators,
processors, and dispensaries
Special Provisions for Commercial and Industrial Uses
   
153.110   Performance requirements
   
153.111   Mineral extraction, storage and processing
   
153.112   Automobile wrecking and metal salvaging
   
153.113   Temporary buildings
   
153.114   Open storage and display of material and equipment
   
153.115   Site plan review for commercial and industrial developments
   
153.116   Adult businesses
Signs
   
153.130   Purpose
   
153.131   Intent
   
153.132   Types and standards of signs allowed with permits
   
153.133   Exempt signs
   
153.134   Prohibited signs
   
153.135   Permitted signs by type and zoning district
   
153.136   General provisions for all types of signs
   
153.137   Abandoned signs
   
153.138   Legal non-conforming sign
   
153.139   Sign permits
Non-Conforming Uses
   
153.150   Intent
   
153.151   Restrictions on legal non-conforming uses
   
153.152   Expiration of approval of changes
Enforcement
   
153.165   Zoning Inspector
   
153.166   Zoning permission for a structure or use
   
153.167   Application for zoning certificate
   
153.168   Application review and issuance
   
153.169   Supplemental regulations   
   
153.170   Certificate of occupancy
   
153.171   Fees
   
153.172   Violations
   
153.173   Remedies
   
153.174   Complaints
   
153.175   Notice of violation
   
153.176   Legal action against violators
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
153.190   Purpose, organization and procedures
   
153.191   Applications
   
153.192   Hearings
   
153.193   Actions of the Board
   
153.194   Appeals
   
153.195   Variances
Planning Commission; District Changes and Amendments
   
153.205   Purpose
   
153.206   Organization and procedures
   
153.207   Applications to Planning Commission
   
153.208   Notices and hearings
   
153.209   Action by the Planning Commission; Council
   
153.210   District changes and amendments
   
153.211   Land annexed to the village
   
153.212   Conditional use requires Planning Commission approval
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY.
   The Village Council, in accordance with enabling legislation for municipal
zoning as provided in R.C. Chapter 713 hereby provides this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Zoning Ordinance
of 1974, as amended”, the “Zoning Ordinance of the Village of Strasburg” or the
“Zoning Code”.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.003 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purposes of protecting and promoting the
public health, safety, morals, comfort and general welfare; conserving the
values of property, facilitating the economical provision of water, sewage
disposal, schools and other public requirements and lessening or avoiding
congestion on public streets and highways.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.004 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   The regulations set forth by this chapter within each district shall be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land. No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied, and no building structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to exceed the height, to accommodate or house a greater number of families, to
occupy a greater percentage of lot area, to have narrower or smaller rear
yards, front yards, side yards or other spaces; or in any other manner contrary
to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
   (C)   Exceptions and variances to these regulations in specific cases may be
authorized by the Board of Zoning Appeals where there are practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships in carrying out the strict letter of this
chapter providing such exception is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of this chapter and in accordance with the procedures and provisions
specified in §§
153.190 through
153.195. Hardship shall be based on physical limitations of the land or
structures and does not encompass financial considerations.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance,
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict
with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted or
issued, pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises and
likewise not in conflict with this chapter; nor is it intended by this chapter
to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other
agreements between parties; provided, however, that where this chapter imposes
a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the height
of buildings, or requires larger open spaces or larger lot areas than are
imposed or required by such other ordinances or agreements, the provisions of
this chapter shall control.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.006 USES EXEMPTED FROM PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER.
   The location, erection, construction, reconstruction, change, alteration,
maintenance, removal, use or enlargement of any building or structures of any
public utility or railroad, whether publicly- or privately-owned, or the use of
land by any public utility or railroad for the operation of its business or the
use of land for essential services as herein defined shall be permitted in all
districts established by this chapter, and no zoning certificate shall be
required for any building or structure or for the use of any land essential to
the operations of a public utility or railroad.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.007 AUTHORITY TO ENACT RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   Upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission, Council may promulgate,
adopt and issue such procedural rules, regulations and forms as are necessary
for the effective administration and enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter. Such rules, regulations and forms shall be consistent with the express
standards, purposes and intent of this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.008 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. The words “occupies” or “used” shall be considered as
though followed by the words “or intended, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied”. The word “lot” includes the words “plot” or “parcel”.
   (B)   Interpretation. The definitions herein are established to promote
consistency and precision in the interpretation of zoning regulations.
Interpretation shall be guided by the following.
      (1)   In order to fulfill the intent and purpose of this chapter, the
Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to define any word or interpret any
definition contained herein.
      (2)   The meaning and construction of words and phrases defined in this
chapter shall apply throughout this code, except where the context of such
words or phrases clearly indicates a different meaning. Additional terms which
are applicable to a particular chapter are defined in that chapter.
      (3)   When words are not defined, the generally accepted dictionary
definitions shall prevail. If a term or word causes difficulties in
interpretation and is not properly described, the Planning Commission shall
define the term and recommend to Council its inclusion in this chapter as an
appropriate definition.
   (C)   Terms defined. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACCESS DRIVE. A driveway on private property that provides access to, for
example, parking spaces, parking lots, garages, loading spaces or similar off-
street parking areas.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure that is
incidental and subordinate to the main use or the land or building, and on the
same lot as the main use or building. ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES may
include garages, storage buildings, swimming pools, landscaping features and
parking lots.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use that is incidental and subordinate to the main use
of the land or buildings and on the same lot as the main use or building.
      ADMINISTRATOR. The Administrator of the Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      ADULT BUSINESS.
         (a)   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A
commercial establishment which, as one of its principal business purposes,
offers for sale or rental any form printed or digital matter, or other visual
representations that are characterized by the depiction of or description of
sexual activities or anatomical genital areas, or paraphernalia that are
designed for use in connection with sexual activities.
         (b)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT. A commercial establishment that regularly
features live entertainment or motion pictures, video cassettes, video disks or
other photographic or digital reproductions which is characterized by the
depiction of or description of sexual activities or anatomical genital areas.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. A facility primarily for the purposes of the
consultation, diagnosis and office treatment of household pets, in conjunction
with which boarding may only be offered during the period of treatment.
      AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR. The repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor
vehicles or parts thereof, including collision service, painting and steam
cleaning of vehicles.
      AUTOMOTIVE AND TRAILER SALES. Display or sale of new and/or used
automobiles or recreational vehicles, in an enclosed building and/or out of
doors.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING SALVAGE AND STORAGE. The dismantling or wrecking of
used motor vehicles or trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled,
partially dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
      BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. For purposes of height
measurement, a BASEMENT shall be counted as a story where more than one-half of
its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground.
      BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATION.
         (a)   A single-family dwelling within which individual guest rooms are
available for meals and lodging for compensation and by prior arrangement, for
not more than 16 transient guests for not more than 72 consecutive hours each.
         (b)   Said use shall not generate traffic in greater volume than would
normally be expected in a residential neighborhood and shall comply with all
off-street parking requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   Bed and breakfast shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   The facility shall only be located in an R-2, R-3, B-1 or B-
2 zoning area as defined by this chapter and shall only be located upon the
issuance of a conditional use permit;
            2.   One on-site parking space shall be provided for each rental
sleeping rooms;
            3.   The facility shall not contain more than four sleeping rooms
for guest rental; and
            4.   No more than two adults shall occupy each sleeping room.
Children under 12 years of age are permitted in the same occupancy, but under
no circumstances shall there be more than four persons occupying each room.
      BOARD, BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS, BZA. The Board of Zoning Appeals of the
Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building or portion thereof, other than a
hotel, which is accessory to a dwelling occupied by the owner or main
leaseholder, where lodging for residents are provided by the owner or main
leaseholder for compensation. The facility shall maintain a kitchen for the use
of residents and/or service of meals to residents. The total number of persons
occupying the premises shall not exceed five.
      BUILDING. A structure designed or built for the shelter, support or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattel or property of any kind. When separated
by division walls from the ground up without interconnecting openings, each
portion of such BUILDING shall be deemed a separate BUILDING. This term shall
be used synonymously with “structure” unless otherwise noted, and shall be
construed as if followed by the words “part or parts thereof”.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established
grade opposite the middle of the front of the building to the highest point of
the roof for flat roofs, to the deck line for mansard roofs and to the mean
height level between eaves and ridges for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL OR MAIN. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which said building is situated. One- and two-
family residential districts are limited to one main building per lot. In other
districts, a grouping of main buildings held under unified ownership shall be
considered the PRINCIPAL OR MAIN BUILDING.
      BUILDING SITE. The portion of the lot or parcel of land upon which the
principal and accessory uses are conducted, and a structure and appurtenance
may exist or are to be placed, or are already existing, including adequate
areas for sewage disposal, clearance, proper drainage, appropriate easements,
parking, required yards and all other facilities required by this chapter and
all other regulations of the village. Also called PREMISES.
      BUSINESS CLASSIFICATIONS.
         (a)   Neighborhood business: retail and service establishments which
cater to and can be located in close proximity to or within residential
districts without creating undue vehicular congestion, excessive noise or other
objectionable influence.
         (b)   Highway business: includes commercial uses requiring locations
on major thoroughfares and at their principal intersections.
         (c)   Central business: retail and service establishments which, in
addition to catering to the community residents’ and workers’ daily needs for
convenience goods and services, also include establishments offering
comparative type shopping facilities.
      CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility where care, protection and supervision
are provided to children on a regular basis for a fee and in accordance with
applicable state laws pertaining to licensing and regulation.
      CHURCH, PLACE OF WORSHIP. A semi-public use for worship, such as a
church, temple, mosque and similar establishments, which has a main hall for
services. May include meeting rooms, offices and other support facilities.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      CLINIC. An establishment where patients who are not lodged overnight are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians practicing
medicine together.
      COMMERCIAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITIES. Any activity conducted for gain
which is generally related to entertainment, such as motion picture or other
theaters; live performances of music, dancing and/or plays; billiard or pool
room; bowling alley; video and games arcade; indoor skating rink; and similar
types of entertainment. All activities shall be conducted indoors. Food and
beverages may be served.
      COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      CONDITIONAL USE, CONDITIONALLY PERMITTED USE. A use that, owing to some
special characteristics attendant to its operation or installation, is
permitted in a district subject to approval by the Planning Commission, and
further subject to special requirements, in addition to those usual
requirements for the district in which the conditional use may be located. A
CONDITIONAL USE may be granted by the Planning Commission only when there is a
specified provision in this chapter. A CONDITIONAL USE is not considered to be
a non-conforming use.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      DISTRICTS, ZONING DISTRICTS. Any designated area of the municipality for
which the zoning regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, the
height of structures, the size of yards and the intensity of use are uniform.
Boundaries of the DISTRICTS are shown on the district map, which is part of
this chapter.
      DRIVE-IN COMMERCIAL USE. Any use that by design of physical facilities
encourages or permits customers to receive a service or pick up a product while
remaining in a motor vehicle, such as drive-through restaurants, auto washes,
bank tellers, pharmacies and similar uses. Such drive-through areas are
intended for brief use by customers and are distinct from parking areas.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for family
residential occupancy, but not including hotels or motels.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY. Two or more dwelling units which are
structurally attached to one another side-by-side, having property lines
between each unit, combined with joint ownership of commonly used portions of
the development, often known as condominiums or townhouses. Such units shall
maintain separate utility connections and ground floor front and rear access.
No unit shall be located above another unit.
      DWELLING, EFFICIENCY. A dwelling unit with a main area for both living
and sleeping.
      DWELLING, MANUFACTURED. A dwelling unit fabricated in an off-site
manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building site,
bearing a label certifying that it is built in compliance with the federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards (24 C.F.R. part 3280),
commonly known as the “HUD Code.” The term single-family dwelling shall include
MANUFACTURED DWELLINGS when placed on permanent foundations. Manufactured homes
are distinguished by two types as follows:
            1.   Residential design manufactured homes (RDMH) are manufactured
homes meeting residential design standards contained in this chapter; and
            2.   Standard design manufactured homes (SDMH) are manufactured
homes certified as meeting the federal HUD Code or certified as meeting the
standards of prior construction codes, and found to be in excellent condition
and safe for continued residential occupancy, but in both cases not meeting
residential design standards contained in this chapter.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of three or more
dwelling units arranged side by side or one above the other, and each having a
separate entrance or an entrance connected to a common outside entrance.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of one dwelling unit.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building consisting of two dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms designed to create an independent
housekeeping establishment with each unit having living, sleeping, cooking and
toilet facilities for one family.
      EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A public or semi-public use consisting of an
elementary school, secondary school, college or university giving general
academic instruction equivalent to the standards prescribed by the State Board
of Education.
      ENGINEER. The Engineer of the Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or
maintenance, by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies,
or underground gas, electrical or water transmission or distribution systems,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, traffic signals, hydrants or other similar
equipment and accessories in connection therewith; reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or municipal or other
governmental agencies for the public health or safety or general welfare, but
not including buildings.
      FAMILY. One or more persons directly related by blood (father, mother,
sister, brother, son, daughter, grandparents or grandchildren), marriage,
adoption or guardianship, or not more than three persons not so related,
occupying a dwelling unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, motel or hotel, as herein defined.
      FARM IMPLEMENT SALES AND SERVICE. Retail and wholesale sales of equipment
and supplies for agriculture and wholesale horticulture and landscaping.
Includes repairs and equipment rental. Excludes GRAIN ELEVATORS and FEED MILLS
as defined in this chapter.
      FLOOR AREA. The gross floor area of all floors of a building or
structure, including outdoor areas where the use is conducted, and all
buildings measured from the outside surface of exterior walls.
      FLOOR AREA, GROUND. The gross floor area of the ground floor of a
building or structure, including outdoor areas where the use is conducted, and
all buildings measured from the outside surface of exterior walls.
      FLOOR AREA, RESIDENTIAL. The interior floor area of a dwelling including
stairways, halls and closets but not including basements, porches, garages,
breezeways or carports.
      FOOD PROCESSING. The commercial processing or other preparation of food
for eventual human or animal consumption, but not consumed on the premises.
Excludes slaughterhouse activities such as the killing of animals, fish, birds
or other creatures.
      FORESTRY. The growing and care of trees for commercial purposes,
including the cutting and marketing of timber.
      FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured at the setback
building line or if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting
on one side between an intersecting street and the dead-end of the street.
      GARAGE. A detached accessory building or portion of a main building for
the parking or temporary storage of motor vehicles, recreational vehicles,
trailers, commercial vehicles and similar vehicles by the occupants of the
premises.
      GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A premises where automobile fuels and other
petroleum products are offered for retail sale, and where limited maintenance
and minor repairs are may be conducted on automobiles. Excludes engine
overhauls, body work and painting. Sales of beverages, packaged foods and
similar convenience goods may also be included as incidental to the principal
use.
      GRAIN ELEVATOR and FEED MILL. Facilities for the bulk storage and
processing of agricultural products, such as grains and animal feeds.
      HIGHWAY, MAJOR. A street or road which continues into the surrounding
township and is used primarily as a traffic artery.
      HOME OCCUPATION, EXPANDED. A conditionally permitted accessory use of a
professional or service character conducted within a dwelling or in an
accessory building or structure to a dwelling unit, conducted by the residents
thereof and not more than one employee, which may have a sign as permitted by
this chapter and which shall provide parking as required by this chapter.
      HOME OCCUPATION, LIMITED. An accessory use of a professional or service
character conducted entirely within a dwelling and only by the residents
thereof, which is clearly secondary to the use of the dwelling for living
purposes and does not change the character thereof or have any exterior
evidence of such secondary use such as, for example, signs, additional parking
or additional traffic generation.
      HOSPITAL. A facility where patients are lodged overnight and admitted for
medical examination and treatment.
      HOTEL and MOTEL. A building or group of buildings offering transient
lodging accommodation for compensation to the general public and may provide
additional services, such as restaurants, meeting rooms or central services.
      INSTITUTION. A public or semi-public use consisting of buildings or land
occupied by a non-profit corporation or a non-profit establishment for public
use.
      INTERCHANGE. A grade-separated, bridged system of access to and from
highways where vehicles may move from one roadway to another without crossing
streams of traffic.
      INTERSECTION. The location where two or more roadways cross at grade
without a bridge.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space, in addition to required off-street
parking spaces, on the same lot with a building for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials.
      LOT. A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used,
developed or built upon.
      LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot
exclusive of any right-of-way of a public or private street.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their
intersection or upon two parts of the same street, such streets or parts of the
same street forming an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      LOT COVERAGE. Percentage of lot coverage shall be the ratio of enclosed
ground floor area of all buildings to the horizontally projected area of the
lot, expressed as a percentage.
      LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the two side lot lines.
      LOT LINE. A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from
another lot or from a public or private street, right-of-way or any other
public space.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot whose existence, location and dimensions have been
legally recorded or registered by the County Recorder of Deeds in a deed or on
a plat, either individually or as part of a subdivision.
      LOT, PANHANDLE. A lot whose configuration includes at least 40 feet
frontage on an improved public road or village approved dedicated private drive
where access is provided to the back portion of the lot through a strip of
ground that is narrower than the minimum approved lot width but at least 40
feet wide the whole length of the access strip.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot that fronts upon two parallel streets or that fronts
upon two streets that do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
      LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot at the building setback line measured at
right angles to its depth. The width of lots fronting on a cul-de-sac shall be
the chord distance between side lot lines for the curve coinciding with the
required depth of the front yard.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A single-family dwelling unit fabricated in an off-
site manufacturing facility for installation or assembly at the building site,
bearing a label certifying that it is built in compliance with the federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards (24 C.F.R. part 3280),
commonly known as the “HUD Code.” The term SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING shall include
MANUFACTURED HOMES when placed on permanent foundations. MANUFACTURED HOMES are
distinguished by two types: residential design manufactured homes (RDMH) and
standard design manufactured home (RDMH) as described in this section. See
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAILERS.
         (a)   RESIDENTIAL DESIGN MANUFACTURED HOME (RDMH). A manufactured,
single-family dwelling meeting residential design standards contained in this
chapter. An RDMH is similar in appearance to site-built housing.
         (b)   STANDARD DESIGN MANUFACTURED HOME (SDMH). A manufactured,
single-family dwelling certified as meeting HUD Code or certified as meeting
the standards of prior construction codes, and found to be in excellent
condition and safe for continued residential occupancy, but in both cases, not
meeting residential design standards contained in this chapter. An SDMH is
similar in appearance to a structure commonly referred to as a mobile home.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A land area planned and improved for
the placement of manufactured homes, and which are not otherwise regulated by
state law. MANUFACTURED HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS include RDMH subdivisions and SDMH
mobile home parks, as described in this section.
         (a)   RDMH SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land improved for the siting of
residential design manufactured homes for use as single-family residences on
lots as defined herein, platted and all applicable improvements provided
according to the subdivision regulations, offered for sale.
         (b)   SDMH MOBILE HOME PARK. A parcel of land under unified ownership
or management utilized for the siting of standard design manufactured homes for
use as single-family residences, including any land, buildings or facilities
used by residential occupants.
      MANUFACTURING. Any production or industrial process, including food
processing, which combines one or more raw materials or components into a
product, or which changes the nature of the materials entering the process.
      MANUFACTURING, GENERAL. The basic processing and manufacturing of
materials or products predominantly from extracted or raw materials, or a use
engaged in storage of, or manufacturing processes that potentially involve
hazardous or commonly offensive conditions.
      MANUFACTURING, RESTRICTED. Any manufacturing or industrial production
from previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, including
processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, packaging, incidental storage,
sales and distribution of such products, but excluding general manufacturing.
      MINERAL EXTRACTION, STORAGE AND PROCESSING. The removal of sand, gravel,
earth, rock, stone or mineral bearing substance from the ground for the purpose
of the sale or other commercial use of the excavated material, and, the storage
and processing of the extracted materials.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure that does not conform with the use
regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE, LEGAL. A building or structure legally existing
at the time of passage of this chapter, or subsequent amendments thereto, and
which does not comply with the dimensional or other building requirements of
the district in which such structure is located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. The use of land or a structure, or portion thereof,
which does not conform with the use regulations of the district in which it is
located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE, LEGAL. The use of land or a building, or a portion
thereof, which existed legally at the time of passage of this chapter, or
subsequent amendments thereto, and which does not conform with the use
regulations of the district in which it is situated.
      NURSING HOME. A convalescent or extended care facility which specializes
in providing necessary services to people unable to care for themselves, but
not including hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to
the diagnosis, treatment or care of the sick or injured. Excludes correctional
facilities. Such facilities shall meet all federal, state and other standards.
      OFFICE. A room, group of rooms or building used for conducting the
affairs of a business, profession, service, industry or government and
generally furnished with desks, tables, files and communication equipment.
      PARKING LOT. An open area, other than a street, used for the parking of
vehicles and available to the public, or as an accommodation to employees,
clients or customers. Excludes the storing of abandoned, impounded or wrecked
vehicles.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET. Any parking space located wholly off any
street, alley or sidewalk, either in an enclosed building or on an open lot and
where each parking space has an area as required in this chapter.
      PERSONAL SERVICE. Any enterprise conducted for gain which primarily
offers services to the general public, such as shoe repair, watch repairing,
barber shop, beauty parlors, dry cleaning service and/or self-service laundry
and similar activities.
      PLANT CULTIVATION. The cultivation of crops, fruit trees, nursery stock
and similar plant materials outside of structures, such as greenhouses, but
exempting such plant cultivation as is conducted on residential properties for
the primary benefit of the resident family.
      PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES. The use of offices and related spaces for such
professional services as are provided by doctors, dentists, lawyers, architects
and engineers.
      PUBLIC SERVICE FACILITY. The erection, construction, alteration,
operation or maintenance of buildings, power plants or substations, water
treatment plants or pumping stations, sewage disposal or pumping plants and
other similar public service structures by a public utility by a railroad,
whether publicly- or privately-owned, or by a municipal or other governmental
agency, including the furnishing of electrical, gas, rail transport,
communication, public water and sewerage services.
      PUBLIC USES. Public parks, schools and administrative, cultural and
service buildings, not including public land or buildings devoted solely to the
storage and maintenance of equipment and material.
      RECREATION FACILITIES.
         (a)   COMMERCIAL RECREATION FACILITIES. Recreational facilities open
to the public, established and operated for a profit.
         (b)   NON-COMMERCIAL RECREATION FACILITIES. Private and semi- public
recreational facilities which are not operated for commercial gain. NON-
COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES may be leased to outside groups or
organizations; provided the fee for such purposes is limited to incidental
maintenance and custodial expenses.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAILER. A vehicle of portable structure designed
and constructed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses, including, but not limited to, the following.
         (a)   BOATS AND BOAT TRAILERS. Includes boats, floats, rafts and the
normal equipment to transport same.
         (b)   MOTORIZED HOME. Portable dwelling designed and constructed as an
integral part of a self-propelled vehicle.
         (c)   PICK-UP CAMPER. A structure designed primarily to be mounted on
a pick-up or truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it suitable
for use as a temporary dwelling.
         (d)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure built on a
chassis as a non-self-propelled vehicle, including tent-type fold-out trailer
and designed to be used as a temporary dwelling.
      RESEARCH AND TESTING FACILITY. A building or group of buildings in which
are located facilities for scientific research, investigation, testing or
experimentation but not facilities for the manufacture or sale of products,
except as incidental to the main purpose of the laboratory. The keeping of
animals on the premises for the purpose of testing or experimentation is
specifically prohibited.
      RESTAURANT. Establishments where food and beverages are prepared and
served primarily within the premises. Includes, for example, bakeries, coffee
and juice bars, sandwich shops, cafes, fine dining and similar businesses that
offer dine-in facilities.
      RETAIL BUSINESS. Premises where goods and merchandise are offered or kept
for sale to the public, including storage of limited quantities of such goods
and merchandise sufficient only to service such establishment. Includes banks
and stores which offer foods for carry-out only.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A duly recorded easement of a strip of land acquired by
reservation, dedication, forced dedication or condemnation and intended to be
occupied by a road, crosswalk, railroad, electric transmission lines, oil or
gas pipeline, water line, sanitary storm sewer and other similar uses.
      SEMI-PUBLIC USES. Churches, Sunday schools, parochial schools, colleges,
hospitals and other institutions of an educational, religious, charitable or
philanthropic nature.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance by which any building or
structure will be separated from a lot line or right-of-way.
      SETBACK LINE. A line established by zoning, platting or other legal means
on a lot a specified distance from and parallel to the lot line to restrict the
encroachment of structures on the lot line. In measuring a required setback,
the distance shall be measured from the lot line or right-of-way, whichever
line creates the minimum lot dimension.
      SIGN. An identification, description, illustration or device which is
affixed to or integrated into a building, structure or land, and which directs
attention to a product, place, activity, person, institution or business. SIGNS
are considered to be structures. Different types of SIGNS are defined and
regulated in this chapter.
      SOCIAL ACTIVITIES. Any building and land used for private or semi-private
club activities, including lodges, fraternities and similar activities.
      SOLICITOR. The Solicitor of the Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      SPECIALIZED ANIMAL RAISING AND CARE. The use of land and buildings for
the raising and care of domestic animals which are not specifically prohibited
by other restrictions by the village or other government agencies. Examples of
activities, facilities and animals include, but are not limited to, domestic
pets; stables and riding arenas for horses; kennels for dogs or other animals;
pigeon raising and raising of any other domestic animals or birds of a similar
nature; birds, mammals, reptiles and similar animals; and boarding of animals.
The keeping of exotic or wild animals is specifically prohibited. Determination
of the classification of an animal as domestic, exotic or wild shall be at the
sole discretion of the village.
      SPECIALTY STORE. A retail establishment primarily engaged in the
merchandising of a particular type of commodity including those selling arts
and crafts, jewelry, leather, antiques, gifts and novelty items, but shall not
include the storage of a quantity of goods in excess of that which is necessary
to serve such establishment.
      STORY. The portion of a building other than a basement included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if
there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it. A basement shall be counted as a STORY if it is used for living
quarters or if two-thirds of its volume is above the average level of the
adjacent ground.
      STORY, HALF. An upper-most story lying under a sloping roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not more than four
feet above the floor of such story and the height at the center is seven feet,
six inches or more.
      STREET PRIVATE. An improved vehicular passage within a right-of-way owned
and maintained by the abutting property owners, or by an association of
property owners, excluding off-street parking areas and driveways.
      STREET, PUBLIC. An improved vehicular passage within a right-of-way that
affords the primary means of access to abutting lots, shown upon a plat and
accepted by the village for perpetual maintenance.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in either the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams and girders, or in the
dimensions or configurations of the roof or exterior walls.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in
the ground or attached to something having a fixed location on or in the
ground. Examples include, but are not limited to, a building, backstop, barn,
deck, fence, garage, gazebo, landscaping wall, shed, porch, sign, storage
building, swimming pool, tank or tower. Excludes a sidewalk, steps, driveway or
similar paved area.
      SWIMMING POOL. A structure, above or in the ground, containing or capable
of containing water to a depth of greater than one and one-half feet at any
point and having a surface area of 200 square feet or greater. It includes
wading pools, hot tubs, Jacuzzis and similar pools with at least the aforesaid
dimensions. It excludes landscaping features such as ponds, pools or fountains
intended for decoration, and not used for swimming, as determined or approved
by Planning Commission.
      TRANSPORT AND TRUCKING TERMINAL. The use of land, buildings or structures
for the purpose of storing, servicing, repairing or loading trucks, transport
trailers and/or buses, but does not include gas or service stations or vehicle
sales or rental outlets.
      USE. The purpose for which land or a structure is arranged, designed or
intended, or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or
maintained.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The permitted or conditionally permitted use or uses
which are being, or are proposed to be, conducted on a premises, and excludes
accessory uses.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the strict terms of the regulations in this
chapter where such modification will not be contrary to the public interest and
where owing to conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the
action of the applicant, a literal enforcement of the regulation would result
in unnecessary hardship and/or an unnecessary practical difficulty. Hardship is
based on physical limitations of the land and does not encompass financial
considerations.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Strasburg, Ohio.
      WAREHOUSE. A premises, lot, structure or portion thereof which is
designed or appropriate for the storage of goods to be sold for wholesale, mail
orders or reshipment.
      WASTE DISPOSAL. Disposition of garbage, combustible and non-combustible
waste material.
      WHOLESALE BUSINESS. An establishment primarily engaged in selling
merchandise to retailers, to industrial, commercial, institutional or
professional business users, or to other wholesalers, or acting as agents or
brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise to, such individuals
or companies.
      YARD. An area of land at grade between a building and the adjoining lot
lines unoccupied by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except
for accessory uses, projections and as otherwise provided herein. A YARD
includes the area of all required setbacks.
      YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street right-
of-way and the main building or any projection thereof, other than the
projection of the usual uncovered steps, uncovered balconies or uncovered
porch. On corner lots, the FRONT YARD shall be considered as parallel to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
      YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot and being the
required minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the rear of
the main building or any projection thereof, other than the projections of
uncovered steps or unenclosed porches.
      YARD, REQUIRED. The minimum yard required between a lot line and a main
building in order to comply with the regulations of the district in which the
lot is located. Use of the word “yard” without the adjectives “required” or
“minimum” connotes the term “yard” in its general sense as defined herein.
      YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot
and extending from the required front yard to the required rear yard, and being
the minimum horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the
main building or any projections thereto.
      ZONING CERTIFICATE. The document issued by the Village Zoning Inspector
authorizing the use of the land or structures.
      ZONING DISTRICT MAP. The zoning district map or maps of the village
together with all amendments subsequently adopted.
      ZONING INSPECTOR. The Zoning Inspector or his or her authorized
representative appointed by the Village Council.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. O-8-2023, passed 6-20-2023; Ord. O-19-
2024, passed 9-3-2024)
DISTRICTS
§ 153.020 DISTRICTS.
   The municipality is hereby divided into districts under four general
categories which shall be known as: OA Open Area District, R Residential
Districts, MB Business Districts and M Manufacturing Districts.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.021 OPEN AREA DISTRICT.
   S1 Special: Areas which are large public or semi-public holdings for
recreational and conservation purposes, areas suitable for non-commercial
recreation and areas subject to periodic flooding.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.022 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   R-R Rural Residence. For very low-density residential developments in
the outlying areas of the village, which are near unincorporated countryside,
agriculture and open spaces.
   (B)   R-1 Very Low-Density Residence. For very low-density residential
development.
   (C)   R-2 Low-Density Residence. For relatively low-density residential
development.
   (D)   R-3 Medium-Density Residence. For residential development of moderate
density, including multiple dwellings, as well as one- and two-family
residences.
   (E)   R-4 Manufactured Housing Development. For residential development of
moderate- density, consisting of manufactured homes that are one-family
residences.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.023 BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   B-1 Central Business. Areas of the existing Central Business District
which contain structurally sound and functional buildings. plus contiguous
areas which provide for the logical expansion of a unified and compact
commercial core.
   (B)   B-2 Neighborhood Business. Areas for local or neighborhood business
providing principally convenience goods and personal services.
   (C)   B-3 Highway and General Business. Areas along major highways or
thoroughfares which provide sales and services oriented to highway travelers;
or general businesses, including sale and services or automotive, farm
machinery, building trades and the like.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.024 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   M-1 Restricted Industrial. Areas for light industries with restricted
manufacturing operations, research facilities and offices of a restricted
nature which will have little or no detrimental effects on neighboring land
uses.
   (B)   M-2 General Industrial. Areas which, because of their access to
transportation and community services, and relative isolation from other land
uses, provide good sites for most types of general industry.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.025 DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   Content and location. The boundaries of the districts are shown upon
the map which is made a part of this chapter, which map is designated as the
district map. The district map and other information shown thereon are a part
of this chapter. The original district map is properly attested and is on file
with the Clerk in the Council chambers.
   (B)   Map changes. No amendment to this chapter which involves matter
portrayed on the official district map shall become effective until after such
change and entry has been made on said map. No changes of any nature shall be
made in the official district map or matter shown thereon except in conformity
with the procedures set forth in this chapter. It shall be the responsibility
of the Secretary of the Planning Commission to keep the official district map
current.
   (C)   Official district map is final authority. The official district map,
which shall be located in the Council chambers shall be the final authority as
to the current zoning status of land and water areas, buildings and other
structures.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.026 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The district boundary lines on said map are intended to follow either
centerlines of thoroughfares or railroads or lot lines. In the case of
unsubdivided property, the district boundary lines shall be determined by the
use of the scale appearing on the zoning district map or by dimensions.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 153.040 TABLE OF PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   The permitted and conditional uses for each district are shown in the
following table. The interpretation of uses shall be as defined in §
153.008. Uses not specifically listed or interpreted to be included under this
subchapter and §§
153.020 through
153.026 shall not be permitted except by amendment to the ordinance; or by a
determination of similar use made in accordance with §
153.042.
Permitted Uses Conditional Uses
Permitted Uses                          Conditional Uses
   B-1 Central Business
Accessory uses                          Any permitted use allowed in any R-1,
                                        R-2 or R-3 Residential Zoning District
Apparel stores                          Commercial entertainment facilities
Appliance stores                        Drive-in commercial uses
Banks                                   Printing and publishing
Business services                       Public service facilities
Drugstores                              Similar uses
Essential services                       
Footwear stores                          
Furniture stores                         
Grocery stores                           
Hardware stores                          
Hotels and motels                        
Offices and professional activities      
Personal services                        
Public uses                              
Restaurants and taverns                  
Semi-public uses                         
Social activities                        
Specialty stores                         
   B-2 Neighborhood Business
Accessory uses                          Any permitted use allowed in any R-1,
                                        R-2 or R-3 Residential Zoning District
Banks                                   Bed and breakfast operation
Drugstores                              Drive-in commercial uses
Grocery stores                          Gasoline service stations
Hardware stores                         Permitted uses in the B-1 District over
                                        6,000 square feet ground floor area
Offices and professional activities     Public service facilities
Personal services                       Similar uses
Restaurants                              
   B-3 Highway and General Business
Automotive repair                       Agriculture
Automotive and trailer sales            Animal hospitals and clinics
Building trades                         Any permitted use allowed in any R-l,
                                        R-2 or R-3 Residential Zoning District
Gasoline service stations               Billboards
Permitted uses in the B-1 and B-        Commercial recreational facilities
2 Districts
Public service facilities               Drive-in commercial uses
                                       Farm implement sales and service
                                       Printing and publishing
                                       Sales and storage of building materials
                                       Similar uses
                                       Transport and trucking terminals
                                       Wholesale business
   M-1 Restricted Industrial
Accessory uses                          Any permitted use allowed in any R-1,
                                        R-2 or R-3 Residential Zoning District
Adult businesses                        Billboards
Essential services                      Food processing
Manufacture of electronics products     Restaurants
Manufacture of parts for production of  Similar uses
finished equipment
Manufacture of pharmaceutical products  Warehouses
Manufacture of small household           
appliances
Manufacture of sporting goods            
Offices                                  
Printing and engraving plants            
Processing and assembly of glass         
products
Public service facilities                
Research and testing facilities          
   M-2 General Industrial
Food processing                         Any permitted use allowed in any R-l,
                                        R-2 or R-3 Residential Zoning District
General manufacturing                   Automobile wrecking, salvage and
                                        storage
Grain elevators and feed mills          Billboards
Manufacturing, sale and storage of      Mineral extraction, storage and
building materials                      processing
Permitted uses in the M-1 District      Restaurants
Transport and trucking terminals        Similar uses
Wholesale and warehousing facilities     
   R-1 Very Low-Density Residence
Accessory uses                          Agriculture
Essential services                      Cemetery
Home occupations, limited               Cluster development
Public uses                             Non-commercial recreation facility
Residential design manufactured housing Public service facility
(RDMH)
Single-family dwelling                  Semi-public uses
                                       Similar uses
   R-2 Low-Density Residence
Accessory uses                          Cluster development
Attached single-family dwelling         Home occupations, expanded
Essential services                      Non-commercial recreation facility
Home occupations, limited               Nursing homes
Public uses                             Public service facility
Residential design manufactured housing Semi-public uses
(RDMH)
Single-family dwelling                  Similar uses
Two-family dwelling                      
   R-3 Medium-Density Residence
Accessory uses                          Child care facilities
Attached single-family dwellings        Home occupations, expanded
Essential services                      Non-commercial recreation facility
Home occupations, limited               Nursing home
Multiple-family dwelling                Public service facility
Public uses                             Semi-public uses
Residential design manufactured housing Similar uses
(RDMH)
Single-family dwelling                   
Two-family dwelling                      
   R-4 Manufactured Housing Development
Accessory uses                          Non-commercial recreation facility
Essential services                      Public service facility
Home occupations, limited               Similar uses
Public uses                              
Residential design manufactured housing  
(RDMH)
Standard design manufactured housing     
(SDMH)
   R-R Rural Residence
Accessory uses                          Agriculture
Essential services                      Cemetery
Home occupations, limited               Cluster development
Public uses                             Non-commercial recreation facility
Residential design manufactured housing Public service facility
(RDMH)
Single-family dwelling                  Semi-public uses
                                       Similar uses
                                       Specialized animal raising and care
   S-1 Special
Accessory uses                          Airports
Essential services                      Cemetery
Forestry                                Commercial recreational facilities
Non-commercial recreational facilities  Mineral, extraction, storage and
                                        processing
Parks                                   Public service facilities
Plant cultivation                       Semi-public uses
Public uses                             Specialized animal raising and care
 
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.041 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Conditional uses are subject to approval in accordance with §
153.212.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.042 SIMILAR USES.
   Upon application for a permit for a building or use not specifically
permitted in a district, or upon its own initiative, the Planning Commission
may recommend to Council additions or clarifications based on the following
standards:
   (A)   Such a use is not listed in any other classification of permitted
uses;
   (B)   Such a use is appropriate to and conforms closely to the basic
characteristics of the district to which it is added;
   (C)   Such a use does not create dangers to health and safety, and does not
create objectionable influences to an extent greater than other uses permitted
in the district to which the use is to be added; and
   (D)   Such a use does not generate traffic to an extent greater than other
uses permitted in the district to which the use is to be added.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.043 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   For special provisions regulating residential, commercial and industrial
uses, refer to §§
153.095 through
153.101 and
153.110 through
153.116.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
MINIMUM DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.055 BASIC YARD, AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS FOR DWELLINGS.
   The following schedule establishes minimum yard area and height requirements
for dwellings by district.
         Minimum Lot  Minimum Lot  Minimum Yard (Feet)  Maximum Building Height
District Width (Feet) Area (Square Front Rear Each Side Stories Feet
                      Feet/Unit)
                        Minimum Minimum   Minimum Yard (Feet)  Maximum Building
                        Lot     Lot Area                       Height
District                Width   (Square
                        (Feet)  Feet/     Front Rear Each Side Stories Feet
                                Unit)
R-1                     90      13,500    30    40   10        2-1/2   35
R-2
   1-family          85      12,000    30    30   9         2-1/2   35
   2-family          100     7,500     30    30   9         2-1/2   35
   ASF (more than 2- 100     7,000     30    30   9         2-1/2   35
family)
R-3
   1-family          70      7,000     25    25   8         2-1/2   35
   2-family          90      6,000     25    25   8         2-1/2   35
   ASF (more than 2- 100     6,000     25    25   8         2-1/2   35
family)
                                                     1-story:
                                                     8
   MF (more than 2-  100     5,000     30    30   2-story:  3       40
family)                                              10
                                                     3-story:
                                                     12
R-4    Manufactured  60      6,000     **    **   **        **      **
housing
R-R                     100     20,000    30    40   15        2-1/2   35
*   Attached single family (ASF) and multi-family (MF) units shall be further
regulated by §
153.100
**   Manufactured homes shall be further regulated by §
153.095.
 
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.056 FLOOR AREA REQUIREMENTS FOR DWELLINGS.
   The residential floor area per family in dwellings erected on any lot shall
not be less than that established by the following table.
                                    Multi-Family Dwellings          Average of
Districts Single - Two-   Efficienc One Bedroo Two Bedroo Three or  All Units
          Family   Family y         m          ms         More      in Project
                                                          Bedroo ms
                                            Multi-Family Dwellings    Average
                  Single - Two-   Efficienc          Two    Three or  of All
Districts         Family   Family y         One      Bedroo More      Units in
                                            Bedroo m ms     Bedroo ms Project

R-1
   1-story     1,100    –    –       –      –    –       –
   More than 1 1,400    –    –       –      –    –       –
story
R-2
   1-story     1,000    800    –       –      –    –       –
   More than 1 1,100    1,000  –       –      –    –       –
story
   ASF         –      –    –       540      700    900       750
   Multi-family–      –    400       540      700    900       750
R-3
   1-story     1,000    800    –       –      –    –       –
   More than 1 1,100    1,000  –       –      –    –       –
story
   ASF         1,000    –    –       480      600    720       650
   Multi-family–      –    320       480      600    720       650
R-4
   RDMH        600      –    –       –      –    –       –
   SDMH        600      –    –       –      –    –       –
R-R
   1-story     1,200    –    –       –      –    –       –
   More than 1 1,500    –    –       –      –    –       –
story
 
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.057 BASIC YARD, AREA, LOT COVERAGE AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL
BUILDINGS OTHER THAN DWELLINGS.
   The following table establishes the yard, area, lot coverage and height
requirements for all buildings except dwellings and structures accessory to
dwellings by districts.
         Minimu Minimu  Minimum                                            Maximu m Maximum
         m Lot  m Lot   Depth      Minimum Width Each Side (Feet) (See §  Percent  Height of
District Width  Area    (Feet)     153.058 (A))                            Lot      Buildings
         (Feet) (Square Front Rear                                         Coverage Stori Feet
                Feet)   Yard  Yard                                                  es
         Minimu Minimu  Minimum                                            Maximu m Maximum
         m Lot  m Lot   Depth      Minimum Width Each Side (Feet) (See §  Percent  Height of
District Width  Area    (Feet)     153.058 (A))                            Lot      Buildings
         (Feet) (Square Front Rear                                         Coverage Stori Feet
                Feet)   Yard  Yard                                                  es
B-1      None   None    None* 20   None                                    80       3**   45
B-2      80     10,000  40    20   None                                    50       2     35
B-3      120    20,000  60    40   30                                      50       3     45
M-1      200    1 acre  50    40   30                                      50       3     45
M-2      200    1 acre  50    40   30                                      50       3     45
R-R      200    2 acres 60    60   50                                      20       3     35
R-1      200    2 acres 60    60   50                                      20       2     35
R-2      150    1 acre  50    50   30                                      30       2     35
R-3      150    1 acre  50    50   30                                      30       2     35
R-4      150    1 acre  50    50   30                                      30       2     35
S-1      250    3 acres 40    40   50                                      20       3     45
*   A minimum of 75% of the front wall shall be built to the edge of the front sidewalk or
front property line
**   The minimum height of buildings shall be 2 stories
 
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. O-47-2022, passed 11-1-2022)
§ 153.058 REQUIREMENTS FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Side yard requirements. In the B-1 and B-2 Districts, when there is no
vehicular access to the rear yard from a public road, alley or from an adjacent
lot with such access, at least one side yard no less than 12 feet shall be
required. The Zoning Inspector may, under advisement by public safety or
emergency forces, require additional fire lanes or setbacks to facilitate
public safety and emergency access.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements. Business and industrial uses shall not be
located nor conducted closer to any lot line of an R District than the distance
specified in the following schedule.
      (1)   Business uses adjacent to residentially zoned property shall be set
back a minimum of 30 feet from the residentially zoned property. The area in
the setback shall be buffered in accordance with the requirements of division
(C) of this section.
      (2)   In all industrial districts, industrial uses located adjacent to
residentially zoned property shall be set back a minimum of 40 feet from the
adjacent residential property line. The area in the setback shall be buffered
in accordance with the requirements of division (C) of this section.
      (3)   The required setback may not be used for storage or other
operations associated with the business or industrial operation.
   (C)   Landscaping or screening provisions. Any unpaved area of a site in B
and M Districts shall be landscaped or maintained in a dust-free condition and
separated from the paved areas by a curb or other barrier. Landscaping or
screening for non-residential uses not separated from a right-of-way from S and
R Districts shall be installed as follows:
      (1)   Screening when used to buffer adjacent residential property shall
consist of landscaping, mounding, fencing or any combination. Screening shall
be maintained in good condition. Plant material shall be replaced when
necessary to maintain the minimum requirements of screening;
      (2)   Landscaping shall consist of a strip of land within the buffer of
no less than 15 feet in width planted with at least 75% evergreen material not
less than six feet in height when full grown which shall provide a minimum
four-foot opaque appearance. The evergreen material may be supplemented by
deciduous plants and trees;
      (3)   Mounding shall be a minimum of four feet in height and graded at a
slope that can be maintained. All mounds shall be planted to prevent erosion;
      (4)   Fencing shall consist of a masonry or solid fence between four and
six feet in height, maintained in good condition and free of all advertising or
other signs;
      (5)   The Zoning Inspector may permit deviation from the screening
requirements and may either require more intensive or allow less intensive
screening whenever it is determined that such deviations satisfy the need for
appropriate screening; and
      (6)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the landscaping
or screening is installed.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.059 EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   The height regulations prescribed herein shall not apply to television and
radio towers, church spires, belfries, monuments, tanks, water and fire towers,
stage towers or scenery lofts, cooling towers, ornamental towers and spires,
chimneys, silos and similar structures, elevator bulkheads, smokestacks,
conveyors and flagpoles, except where the height of such structures will
constitute a hazard to the safe landing and take-off of aircraft at an
established airport.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.060 EXISTING LOTS OF RECORD.
   Any lot of 70 feet in width or less existing at the effective date of this
chapter in any R District may be used for the erection of a single-family
dwelling even though its area and width are less than the minimum requirements
set forth herein. Each side yard shall be a minimum of five feet. The
prevailing front setback shall be met. Where two adjacent lots of record with
less than the required area and width are held by one owner, the lots shall be
combined and used for one main building. Where three or more contiguous
unimproved lots of record with less than the required area and width are held
by one owner, the Planning Commission may require re-platting to fewer lots to
permit compliance with minimum yard requirements.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.061 ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTIONS.
   Open structures such as porches, balconies, platforms, carports and covered
patios, and similar architectural projections shall be considered a part of the
building to which attached and shall not project into the required minimum
front, side or rear yard. Ordinary projections of sills, belt courses, roof
eaves, cornices and similar structural, and ornamental features may extend to a
distance not to exceed 18 inches into a required yard.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.062 LOT REDUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No existing lot without a dwelling shall be reduced in dimension or area
below the minimum requirements herein. Lots created after the effective date of
this chapter shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
chapter.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.063 MULTIPLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   Lots having frontage on more than one street shall provide the required
front yard along the major traveled street, as determined by the village, and
meet the side setback requirements on the other street except that no accessory
building shall be closer than 25 feet from the curb of a public street.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.064 ACCESSORY USES AND BUILDINGS.
   No accessory buildings shall be located in any front or side yard, and shall
not exceed the floor area of the primary structure, or exceed 20 feet in
height. Accessory buildings, such as garages may be located in the rear yard;
provided such buildings are set back at least six feet from the side lot lines
and six feet from the rear lot lines. No accessory uses or structures, off-
street parking facilities or material or equipment storage shall be located in
any front yard.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. O-47-2022, passed 11-1-2022) Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.065 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY ACROSS CORNER LOTS.
   In any district on any corner lot, no fence, structure or planting shall be
erected or maintained within 30 feet of the corner at a height between two and
one-half and ten feet above curb or street grade, or so as to interfere with
traffic visibility across the corner. The corner shall be the point of
intersection of the two right-of-way lines.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.066 PLANNING COMMISSION LOT SPLIT DECISIONS.
   (A)   When the square foot requirements provided by the subdivision
regulations and this chapter are met, and the lots under consideration provide
satisfactory building sites, innovative lot designs may be approved for lot
splits by the Planning Commission. However, in no case shall the front setbacks
for said lot be less than that specified in either the subdivision regulations
or zoning ordinances for the village, and it is specifically understood that
all proposed lots must meet or exceed the lot width for their zoning district
by the provisions of either the subdivisions regulations or this chapter,
except those defined in §
153.060.
   (B)   When the area and setback requirements provided by this chapter are
unable to be met because a lot has more than one existing dwelling and/or
building, the lot split under consideration may be approved by the Planning
Commission if the split itself will not create additional building sites.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.067 CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS.
   The conversion of any building into a dwelling unit or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or
families, shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for
similar occupancy would be permitted under this chapter, and only when the
resulting occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new
construction in such district, with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per
dwelling unit, dimensions of yards and other open spaces and off-street
parking.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.068 PANHANDLE LOTS.
   Panhandle lots, as defined in §
153.008, shall be approved only if necessitated by unique topographic or
physical conditions that make it difficult to access the lots using other lot
split geography with full required lot widths at the property line fronting a
public access or dedicated private drive. If such lots are approved, (a) the
area of the "panhandle" shall not be included in the calculation of the minimum
area requirement for the lot size; (b) the panhandle shall have a minimum lot
width of 40 feet along the entire length of the panhandle; (c) no structure
other than fences and signs (if otherwise permitted in this chapter) shall be
permitted in the panhandle portion of the lot; and (d) the setback for a
building or other structure shall be measured from the lot lines of the rear
portion of the panhandle lot, or in the case of front yard setbacks, from the
line that separates the panhandle from the rear portion of the lot. All other
lot requirements under this chapter shall be maintained.
(Ord. O-19-2024, passed 9-3-2024)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.080 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The purpose of this section is to encourage sufficient off-street parking
for the convenience of property owners, occupants and visitors; to provide
sufficient off-street parking for peak times, peak seasons and the like; to
minimize conflicts between on-street parking and traffic; to discourage
unauthorized parking on nearby property or use of parking spaces intended for
other establishments; and to provide visual buffers between parking areas and
nearby residential uses. It is not the intention of this section to require
more parking than is necessary, which could use land inefficiently and create
an undesirable appearance of excessive parking areas.
   (A)   General requirements. In all districts, in connection with every
industrial business, institutional, recreational, residential or other use,
there shall be provided, at any time any building or structure is erected or is
enlarged or increased in capacity, off-street parking spaces for automobiles in
accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Dimensions of parking spaces. Each off-street parking space shall
have an area of not less than 180 square feet exclusive of access drives or
aisles, and shall be of usable shape and condition.
      (2)   Access to parking spaces. There shall be adequate provision for
ingress and egress to all parking spaces. Where a lot does abut on a public or
private alley or easement of access, there shall be provided an access drive
not less than eight feet in width in the case for a dwelling. In all other
cases, there shall be provided an access drive not less than 20 feet or greater
than 28 feet in width, leading to the parking or storage or loading or
unloading spaces required hereunder.
      (3)   Location of access drives. Access drives shall be located such that
they are a safe distance from any street intersection as determined by the
Zoning Inspector under advisement from emergency and safety forces.
      (4)   Access drives near residential districts. Access to commercial or
industrially zoned property shall not be located in any residential zoning
district.
   (B)   Number of spaces required. In all Districts, except for the B-
1 Central Business District, the number of off-street parking spaces to be
provided shall not be less than the following:
Use Required Number of Off-Street Parking Spaces
Use                                     Required Number of Off-Street Parking
                                        Spaces
Business-Type Uses
Automotive repair                       2 spaces per each service bay
Business service, personal service or   1 space per each 250 square feet of
retail business under 10,000 square     floor area
feet
Business service, personal service or   1 space per each 500 square feet of
retail business, over 10,000 square     floor area, plus 1 space per each 1,000
feet                                    feet of warehouse area
                                        1 space per 300 square feet of floor
Drive-through use                       area, plus 100% of spaces required for
                                        other uses associated with the
                                        establishment
                                        1 space per each gasoline pump, plus 2
Gasoline service station                spaces per each service bay, plus
                                        spaces required for other uses
                                        associated with the establishment
Mortuary or funeral home                1 space per each 50 square feet of
                                        floor space in public rooms
                                        1 space per each guest suite, plus 50%
                                        of spaces otherwise required for other
Motel, hotel                            uses associated with the establishment
                                        such as administrative offices, meeting
                                        rooms and restaurants
Restaurant, tavern                      1 space per each 100 square feet of
                                        floor area
Dwellings
                                        2 spaces per principal dwelling, plus 1
                                        space per each boarder suite; in all
Boarding and rooming house              cases, all vehicles parked by residents
                                        of the boarding house shall be parked
                                        on the site
Dwelling unit, all types                3 spaces per unit
   Group Activity-Type Uses
                                        1 space for each 4 seats in the
Assembly room, meeting room, classroom  principal assembly room with fixed
(not in a school)                       seats, or 1 space per each 100 square
                                        feet in the principal assembly room
                                        without fixed seats
Child care facility                     1 space per each 300 square feet
Church, place of worship                1 space per each 5 seats in main
                                        auditorium
Clinic                                  1 space per each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area
Community center, library, museum or    1 space per each 300 square feet of
art gallery                             floor area
                                        1 space per each 3 in-patient beds,
                                        plus 1 space per each 200 square feet
Hospital                                of out-patient treatment areas, plus 1
                                        space per each 400 square feet of
                                        office space
Nursing home                            1 space per each 3 licensed beds
                                        1 space per each 5 seats or bench seats
                                        in auditorium or main assembly room, or
School, primary                         1.5 for each classroom, whichever is
                                        greater, plus 1 space per each 400
                                        square feet of administrative office
                                        space
                                        1 space per each 5 seats or bench seats
                                        in main auditorium, or 4 spaces per
School, secondary or adult              each classroom, whichever is greater.
                                        plus 1 space per each 400 square feet
                                        of administrative office space
Large Area-Type Uses
Agriculture, airport, automotive/
recreational vehicle/trailer sales,
cemetery, farm implement sales and
service, farm vacation enterprise,      Because such uses generally involve
forestry, grain elevators and feed      large areas of land which is physically
mill, homemade sales, mineral           suitable for parking, all vehicles
extraction-storage-processing, oil and  associated with the establishment must
gas extraction, park, plant             be parked on-site at all times and
cultivation, recreation facility,       shall be subject to the setback
recycling center or salvage operation,  requirements of this chapter
specialized animal raising and care,
tourist camp, transportation and
trucking terminal, and similar uses
Manufacturing-Type Uses
Food processing, general manufacturing,
research and testing facility,          1 space per each 500 square feet of
restricted manufacturing and wholesale  floor area
business
Warehouse                               2 spaces, plus 1 space per each 2,000
                                        square feet of floor area
Office-Type Uses
Medical, dental office; clinic          1 space per each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area
Public and community office             1 space per each 200 square feet of
                                        floor area
All other professional offices          1 space per each 300 square feet of
                                        floor area
Recreation-Type Uses
Auditorium (not on the same site as a   1 space per each 5 seats or bench seats
school), theater, arena or stadium
                                        5 spaces for each alley, plus 50% of
Bowling alley                           spaces otherwise required for other
                                        uses associated with the establishment
                                        4 spaces per each green, plus 50% of
Golf course                             the spaces otherwise required for other
                                        uses associated with the establishment
                                        1 space per each 150 square feet of
Other entertainment facilities          floor area, plus 50% of the spaces
                                        otherwise required for other uses
                                        associated with the establishment
 
   (C)   Interpretation of requirements. The following rules shall govern the
determination of spaces required.
      (1)   Parking requirement based on floor area. Floor area shall mean the
gross floor area of the specified use, including outdoor areas where the use is
conducted, and all buildings.
      (2)   Required parking for fractions. Fractional numbers of the total
number of required parking spaces shall be increased to the next whole number.
      (3)   Parking required for multiple uses. Unless described differently in
this subchapter, where more than one use is present in one establishment, and
the floor area devoted to each use may be separately determined, the total
number of spaces required shall be the sum of the individual requirements.
Where multiple uses are combined in an establishment in such a way that
separate floor areas cannot be calculated, the standard for the use requiring a
greater number of spaces shall apply.
      (4)   Parking required for outdoor sales and outdoor storage. Areas for
outdoor sales and outdoor storage shall be counted in total floor area and for
purposes of determining required off-street parking.
      (5)   Parking required for bench seating. The number of seats on benches
shall be calculated as one seat per each 30 inches of bench length.
      (6)   Parking required for uses not specifically mentioned. The parking
space requirement for a use not specifically mentioned herein shall be the same
as required for a use of similar nature as determined by the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.081 SPECIAL PARKING PROVISIONS.
   Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public, commercial or private
parking lot shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Setbacks for off-street parking. Off-street parking areas shall be
subject to the following distance and setback requirements.
      (1)   Buffers between parking and dwellings or other uses. No part of any
parking area for more than ten vehicles shall be closer than 20 feet to any
dwelling, school, hospital or other institution for human care located on an
adjoining lot, unless screened in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   No parking in front yard. If on the same lot with a main building
in a B or M District, the parking area shall not be located within the front
yard setback required for such building. For existing lots, the Planning
Commission may modify this requirement upon a determination that there is no
other suitable off-street parking area available which will allow the
requirements of this chapter to be met. Such modification shall be limited to
the minimum required to comply with the parking requirements and division (A)
(3) of this section.
      (3)   Parking setback from street. In no case shall any part of a parking
area be closer than five feet to any established street or alley right-of-way.
   (B)   Joint use. A structure or premises containing two or more uses which
have different off-street parking requirements shall provide spaces for not
less than the sum of the spaces required for each use. Two or more non-
residential uses may jointly provide and use parking spaces when their hours or
operation do not normally overlap; provided that a written agreement, approved
by the Village Solicitor and accepted by the Planning Commission shall be filed
with the application for a zoning certificate.
   (C)   Providing off-street parking on another site. In any non-residential
district, parking spaces may be located on a separate lot within 300 feet
walking distance to any customer entrance of the principal building; provided a
written agreement, approved by the Village Solicitor and accepted by the
Planning Commission shall be filed with the application for a zoning
certificate. The Planning Commission shall permit such facilities only if it
determines that the pedestrian route between the parking area and the subject
use is safe and does not necessitate unlawful trespassing. Any subsequent
alteration or amendment to such agreement shall be subject to further review
and approval.
   (D)   Surfacing for off-street parking. Any off-street parking area for more
than ten vehicles shall be graded for proper drainage and drained as to dispose
of all surface water accumulated within the area, and surfaced so as to provide
a durable and dustless surface, and shall be so arranged and marked as to
provide for orderly and safe loading and unloading, parking and storage of
vehicles.
   (E)   Lighting for off-street parking. Any lot intended to be used during
non-daylight hours shall be illuminated. Such lighting shall be so arranged as
to reflect direct light away from adjoining premises and the public right-of-
way.
   (F)   Parking disabled vehicles. The parking of an unlicensed and/or
disabled vehicle within any district for a period of more than two weeks shall
be prohibited, except that such vehicle may be stored in an enclosed garage or
other accessory building.
   (G)   Commercial vehicles parked in residential districts.
      (1)   Not more than one commercial truck may be parked on the premises of
any dwelling unit in any R District; provided that the gross vehicle weight of
said commercial truck shall not exceed 22,000 pounds; and further provided that
the ownership and use of this commercial truck is necessarily related to the
occupation of the resident of such dwelling unit.
      (2)   No commercial truck or other truck with a gross vehicle weight in
excess of 22,000 pounds, no commercial tractor and no semitrailer shall be
permitted to park on the premises of any dwelling unit in any R District, nor
shall any of the above be permitted to park on any street, alley or public
right-of-way in any R District, nor shall any of the above be permitted to park
on any public property or other public right-of-way within the village.
      (3)   Commercial tractor, semitrailer and truck shall be defined as set
forth at §
70.01 of the code of ordinances.
   (H)   Drive-through uses. Drive-through facilities shall be subject to the
following:
      (1)   Drive-through facilities shall not be located at the front of the
main building;
      (2)   Drive-through facilities shall not be located on any side of the
main building which abuts an R District;
      (3)   No drive-through traffic shall be permitted to queue off the site
or in a public or private street; and
      (4)   Drive-through facilities shall be so arranged and marked to ensure
that there is no interference with circulation or visibility for traffic either
on or off site.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.082 HANDICAPPED PARKING REGULATIONS.
   Handicapped parking spaces shall be provided as required by the Americans
With Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. Such requirements shall
be enforced on behalf of the village by the Zoning Inspector. In no case may
federal requirements for handicapped parking facilities be decreased by any
official of the village.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.083 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Uses requiring loading spaces. In any district, in connection with
every building or part thereof, hereafter erected and having a gross floor area
of 10,000 square feet or less, which is to be occupied by uses requiring the
receipt or distribution by vehicle of material or merchandise, there shall be
provided and maintained on the same lot with such building at least one off-
street loading space, plus one additional such loading space for each
additional 20,000 square feet of major fraction thereof of gross floor area.
   (B)   Dimension of loading spaces. Each loading space shall be not less than
12 feet in width, 35 feet in length and 14 feet in height.
   (C)   Loading spaces in side and rear yards. Loading spaces may occupy all
or any part of any required side or rear yard, except as required by this
subchapter.
   (D)   Loading spaces near residential districts. No such space shall be
located closer than 50 feet to any other lot in any R District, unless wholly
within a completely enclosed building or unless enclosed on all sides facing
lots in any R District by a wall or fence not less than six feet in height.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL USES
§ 153.095 MANUFACTURED HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Requirements for RDMH. Manufactured homes approved as residential
design manufactured homes (RDMH) shall be permitted in residential districts
subject to requirements and limitations applying generally to such residential
use in the districts, including minimum lot, yard and building spacing, floor
area requirements, off-street parking requirements and approved foundations as
described in this chapter. The following standards shall be used in
determinations of similarity in appearance between RDMH homes and site-built
housing which has been constructed in adjacent or nearby locations.
      (1)   The minimum width of the main body of the RDMH as located on the
site shall not be less than 20 feet, as measured across the narrowest portion,
excluding any off-setting of portions of the home.
      (2)   The minimum pitch of the main roof shall be not less than one foot
of rise for each four feet of horizontal run and minimum roof overhang shall be
one foot. In cases where site-built housing generally has been constructed in
adjacent or nearby locations with roof pitches less than 1:4 and/or roof
overhangs are less than one foot, then the RDMH may have less roof pitch and
overhang similar to the site-built houses. Roofing material may be used which
is generally used for site-built houses in adjacent or nearby locations;
      (3)   Any material may be used for exterior finish which is generally
acceptable for site-built housing which has been constructed in adjacent or
nearby locations; provided, however that reflection for such exterior shall not
be greater than from siding coated with clean white gloss exterior enamel;
      (4)   No RDMH shall be placed or occupied for residential use on a site
in a residential district until such foundation plans have been approved by the
Zoning Inspector as to the appearance and durability of the proposed foundation
and being acceptable, similar or compatible in appearance to foundations of
residences built on adjacent or nearby sites;
      (5)   RDMH shall be placed on lots in such a manner as to be compatible
with and reasonably similar in orientation to the site-built housing which has
been constructed in adjacent or nearby locations;
      (6)   In residential neighborhoods where adjacent or nearby site-built
homes include garages and/or carports, a RDMH shall be required to be provided
with a garage and/or carport compatible with the RDMH and the site-built
garages and/or carports constructed in adjacent or nearby locations; and
      (7)   All manufactured homes, trailers or similar portable residential
structures approved prior to the adoption of this chapter, and not located in a
manufactured housing development or similar development, shall be declared
conforming. When permits are requested for replacement of existing units, the
replacement unit shall be an RDMH as defined in this chapter. The Zoning
Inspector may authorize modifications of minimum lot size, lot area, lot width
and minimum side and rear setbacks; provided that such modification is the
minimum necessary to accommodate the replacement unit. In no case shall the
side yard setback be less than five feet and the prevailing front setback shall
be met.
   (B)   Requirements for SDMH development. Standard design manufactured homes
(SDMH) shall be permitted in a manufactured housing development in an R-
4 District only. Standard design manufactured housing developments shall
conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   It shall contain a minimum of four acres.
      (2)   It shall provide water to each lot through connection with the
village water system.
      (3)   It shall provide sewage disposal through the village sewage system,
with a separate connection available to each lot.
      (4)   It shall provide a clearly defined minimum lot area of 6,000 square
feet with a minimum lot width of 60 feet and a minimum of 600 square feet of
floor area for each unit.
      (5)   It shall provide a minimum of 20 feet clearance between the sides
of units, 15 feet between the ends of units and a 50-foot setback from any
property line bounding the development. In computing these distance
requirements, any lean-to’s auxiliary rooms and similar accessories connected
to the unit shall be considered as part of the unit.
      (6)   Direct vehicular access to the development by means of an abutting
improved public street shall be provided. Each development shall be provided
with thoroughfares for complete and uninterrupted traffic circulation within
its boundaries. No manufactured home shall be located closer than 15 feet to
such internal thoroughfares. All such streets and thoroughfares shall comply
with the subdivision regulations.
      (7)   Two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for each
manufactured home. One such parking space shall be provided at each site. The
second space may be located in off-street parking areas located on the site so
as to be no more than 150 feet from the unit for which the space is designed.
In addition to the required resident parking, a minimum of one-half off-street
parking space per unit shall be provided in common parking areas distributed
throughout the development in a manner which provides access to all units.
      (8)   Each manufactured housing development shall set aside a safe,
usable area of not less than 1% of the gross area which shall be devoted to
open space or recreational facilities, including space for community buildings
and community use facilities, such as adult recreation and child play areas and
swimming pool. Where practical, recreational facilities shall be centrally
located. Land set aside for such open space or recreation purposes shall be
subject to legally enforceable reservation and restrictions that will ensure
the preservation of the land in perpetuity and absolutely prohibit development
of such land except for permitted recreational use by the owners and residents
without profit. No area to be computed as recreation space shall have a
dimension less than 20 feet, measured in any direction. Required front yards,
side yards and buffer areas shall be excluded in the computation of open space.
Said area shall be conveniently located for use by the residents and shall
conform to all state and local requirements.
      (9)   Boats and recreation vehicles shall not be stored on the individual
manufactured home lots for 48 hours or a longer period of time. An area for
such storage shall be designated when the manufactured home development plan is
submitted.
      (10)   All manufactured homes shall be erected on concrete pads or piers
and have tie-downs and skirting. Such tie-downs and skirting shall be in place
within 30 days after placing of the unit on the lot. The Zoning Inspector may
approve alternative means for securing the manufactured home; provided that the
intent of this section is met.
      (11)   The manufactured housing development shall be landscaped with
lawns, plantings and appropriate trees as approved by the Planning Commission.
      (12)   Manufactured housing developments shall be effectively screened on
all sides by walls, fences or plantings, except where the area is sufficiently
removed from other residential and other uses as determined by the Planning
Commission. Walls or fences shall be a minimum of six feet in height with no
advertising thereon. In lieu of such wall or fence, a strip of land not less
than ten feet in width and planted and maintained with an evergreen hedge or
dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less than ten feet in height when fully
grown may be substituted.
      (13)   Not more than one freestanding accessory building may be placed on
any manufactured home lot. Any such building shall be at least five feet from
units on other lots.
      (14)   Each lot shall be provided with a suitably surfaced patio of at
least 100 square feet and suitably surfaced walkways at least two feet in width
from the manufactured home door to the parking area, patio and adjacent street.
Such surfaces shall be approved by the Planning Commission.
      (15)   Manufactured housing development applications shall include at
least the following:
         (a)   Floodplain information;
         (b)   Proof of insurability of the development and of each unit, based
on floodplain information;
         (c)   Verification by the local Fire Department of a suitable street
layout for fire protection purposes;
         (d)   Fire hydrants located in consultation with the Village Council
in accordance with regulations of said Council;
         (e)   Area lighting plan;
         (f)   Specifications for support of anchorage of manufactured homes,
including foundations; and
         (g)   Evidence of compliance with all jurisdictional Health Department
requirements.
   (C)   Prior approved developments. All manufactured housing developments
approved prior to the adoption of this chapter shall be declared conforming.
When permits are requested for replacement of existing units, the replacement
units shall be an RDMH or SDMH as defined in this chapter. The Zoning Inspector
may authorize modifications of minimum lot size, lot area, lot width and
minimum side and rear setbacks; provided that such modification is the minimum
necessary to accommodate the replacement unit. In no case shall the side yard
setback be less than five feet and the prevailing front setback shall be met.
   (D)   Previously approved SDMHs. 
      (1)   SDMHs approved prior to the adoption of this chapter, and not
located in a manufacturing housing development or similar development, shall be
declared conforming. When permits are requested and approved for replacement of
these existing units, the replacement unit shall meet the following criteria
before being permitted to be located on the site and in order to remain
conforming:
         (a)   Must be five years old or newer;
         (b)   Must be in good habitable condition;
         (c)   Must be in place and set up within two months of the removal of
the unit being replaced;
         (d)   Must meet zoning setback requirements or otherwise be approved
by the Zoning Inspector;
         (e)   Must be the same square footage as the replaced unit or bigger;
         (f)   Must have separation utility hook-ups;
         (g)   Must be erected on concrete pads or piers and have tie-downs and
skirting which shall be in place within 30 days after placing of the unit on
the lot;
         (h)   Must be appropriately landscaped;
         (i)   Must not have more than one freestanding accessory building on
the lot; and
         (j)   Must have a suitably surfaced patio of at least 100 square feet.
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector may authorize modifications of minimum lot
size, lot area, lot width and minimum side and rear setbacks; provided that
such modification is the minimum necessary to accommodate the replacement unit.
In no case shall the side yard setback be less than five feet and the
prevailing front setback shall be met.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.096 PARKING OR STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, TRAILERS AND BOATS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise authorized by the Village Council in accordance with
this section, no recreational vehicle or other vehicle, and no boat trailer,
utility trailer, travel trailer, camping trailer or trailer incapable of being
self-propelled and designed to be towed or pulled behind a motor vehicle, shall
be prohibited in any residential district for 48 hours or a longer period of
time except that such vehicles, trailers and boats may be stored in an enclosed
garage or other accessory building or parked in the rear yard of a residential
property, provided:
      (1)   That in all cases, no living quarters shall be maintained or any
business conducted in the recreational vehicle, trailer or boat while it is
stored or parked;
      (2)   The recreational vehicle, trailer or boat is intended and used for
the sole use and enjoyment of the resident occupants of the property on which
it is stored or parked; and
      (3)   The recreational vehicle, trailer or boat shall not be parked
closer than five feet to the side or rear lot lines of the property on which it
is stored or parked.
   (B)   Upon written application to the Village Council, parking of such
recreational vehicle(s), boat trailer, utility trailer, travel trailer, camping
trailer or any other trailer incapable of being self-propelled and designed to
be towed or pulled being a motor vehicle, may be permitted in a location in a
residential district other than the rear yard; provided that the rear yard is
insufficient or incapable of having such vehicle(s) or trailer(s) parked
therein, and all of the adjacent of having such vehicle(s) or trailer(s) parked
therein, and all of the adjacent neighbors consent to the parking of said
vehicle(s), trailer(s) and boat(s) in a location designated for the same, by
Council.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.097 SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Private swimming pools. Private swimming pools shall be allowed in any
B or R District as an accessory use and shall comply with the following
conditions and requirements:
      (1)   The pool is intended and is to be used solely for the enjoyment of
the occupants of the principal use of the property on which it is located;
      (2)   The pool or any accessory structure shall be located in the side or
rear yard no closer than ten feet to any property line of the property on which
it is located; and
      (3)   The swimming pool, or the entire property on which it is located,
shall be so walled, fenced or covered so as to prevent uncontrolled access from
the street or from adjacent properties. Such fence or wall shall be not less
than four feet in height. All walls, fences or covers shall be maintained in
good condition and be secured with a lock.
      (4)   In lieu of the requirements of division (A)(3) of this section for
above ground pools, the side wall of the pool can act as the uncontrolled
access means providing a minimum height of four feet above grade is maintained
around the entire perimeter of the pool. Pool access ladders must be capable of
being securely locked to prevent access to the pool from the ladder and be so
locked when the pool is not in use.
   (B)   Community or club swimming pools. A community or club swimming pool
shall be any pool constructed by an association of properly owners or by a
private club. Community and club swimming pools are permitted in all districts,
but shall comply with the following conditions and requirements:
      (1)   The pool is intended solely for the enjoyment of the members and
families and guests of members of the association or club under whose ownership
or jurisdictions the pool is operated;
      (2)   The pool and accessory structures thereto, including the areas used
by the bathers, shall not be closer than 100 feet to any property line of the
property on which it is located; and
      (3)   The swimming pool and all of the area used by the bathers shall be
so walled or fenced or covered as to prevent uncontrolled access from the
street or adjacent properties. The said fence or wall shall not be less than
six feet in height and maintained in good condition. All walls, fences or
covers shall be maintained in good condition and be secured with a lock.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. O-8-2023, passed 6-20-2023)
§ 153.098 FENCES AND PLANTING SCREENS.
   (A)    For residential uses in any R district, fences, plant material and
similar screening devices up to three feet in height are permitted in yards
fronting onto and facing a public street, including those lots that front
multiple public streets (not including alleys). These same screening devices,
up to six feet in height, are permitted in remaining yards, except that for
visibility purposes, no such screening device shall be permitted over three
feet in height on side or back yards until the front yard building setback
distances of adjacent property, established in §
153.055, have been met.
   (B)   Screening devices on corner lots in all zoning districts shall only be
permitted as set forth in §
153.065.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020; Ord. O-20-2024, passed 8-20-2024)
§ 153.099 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Types of home occupations. Home occupations shall be classified as
either a limited home occupation or an expanded home occupation.
   (B)   Limited home occupation. The following shall apply to limited home
occupations in any district:
      (1)   No person other than a resident of the dwelling unit shall be
engaged in such operation;
      (2)   The limited home occupation shall be conducted wholly within the
dwelling unit. The use of the dwelling unit for the limited home occupation
shall be clearly incidental to the use for residential purposes by the dwelling
unit occupants, and not more than 25% of floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the limited home occupation;
      (3)   No mechanical equipment is to be utilized except that which is
necessarily, customarily or ordinarily used for household and leisure purposes;
      (4)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, including a sign, or other visible evidence or the conduct of such
limited home occupation;
      (5)   No direct sales are permitted; and
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by such limited home occupation in
greater volume than would normally be expected in residential neighborhoods.
   (C)   Expanded home occupation. The following shall apply to expanded home
occupations in any district:
      (1)   At least one resident shall be engaged in such occupation and not
more than one person other than a resident of the dwelling unit may be engaged
in such occupation;
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit or accessory building or structure for
the expanded home occupation shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to the
use for residential purposes by the dwelling unit residents, and not more than
25% of the dwelling unit or accessory building or structure shall be used in
the conduct of the expanded home occupation;
      (3)   No mechanical equipment is to be utilized except that which is
necessarily, customarily or ordinarily used for household and leisure purposes;
      (4)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the building
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such expanded home
occupation other than one sign, meeting the requirements of this chapter;
      (5)   Sales clearly incidental to the expanded home occupation are
permitted; and
      (6)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volume than would normally be expected in residential neighborhoods, and any
need for parking generated by the expanded home occupation shall meet the off-
street parking requirements of this chapter, and shall not be located in a
required front yard.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.100 MULTI-FAMILY, ATTACHED SINGLE-FAMILY AND CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   Multi-family, attached single-family and cluster development shall be
approved by the Planning Commission and regulated by the following special
provisions. Standards in this section shall apply to projects with more than
four units. Where strict application of these standards would serve no
significant purpose, the Planning Commission shall have the authority to waive
or modify these standards so long as the convenience and general welfare of
neighboring uses is maintained.
   (A)   Circulation and access. Proposals for multi-family, attached single-
family and cluster development shall include a circulation plan in accordance
with the following:
      (1)   Direct vehicular access to the development by means of an abutting
improved public street shall be provided. Each development shall be provided
with thoroughfares for complete and uninterrupted traffic circulation within
its boundaries. The Planning Commission shall evaluate a proposed circulation
plan to assure that it meets the following objectives:
         (a)   Residents and emergency services have an alternative access
point to the development in the event that one access point is blocked or
otherwise impassable; and
         (b)   Interference with the free and convenient flow of traffic in
abutting or surrounding streets is minimized.
      (2)   Private streets proposed for a development shall be clearly
delineated on the development plan together with the descriptive data as to the
compliance with the subdivision regulations and the methods proposed for
maintaining the private streets. In those cases where no request for public
dedication is likely to be made, the Planning Commission may authorize
modifications to the requirements of the subdivision regulations. Such
authorization may include input from the Water and Sewer Superintendent/Village
Administrator, Village Engineer and other village officials as applicable;
      (3)   All private streets shown on the development plan shall be subject
to legally enforceable reservations and restrictions acceptable to the village,
which will ensure the preservation of the private street in perpetuity; and
      (4)   Each development shall be served by a comprehensive walkway system,
adequately separated from vehicular circulation.
   (B)   Density and usage. Density and usage of a development shall comply
with the requirements of §§
153.040 and
153.055 for the zoning district in which the development is proposed to be
located.
   (C)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   The minimum setback from any private street shall be 20 feet. Such
setback shall be measured from the edge of pavement or back of curb.
      (2)   Required yards shall be excluded in the computation of common open
space.
      (3)   To screen and lessen the impact of the development on surrounding
properties, a buffer shall be required around any boundary of a development
that does not abut a public right-of-way. The buffer shall consist of a strip
of land not less than ten feet in width and planted and maintained with an
evergreen hedge or dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less than ten feet in
height when fully grown. The buffer shall be landscaped in accordance with an
approved landscape plan and shall be maintained as open space which may be
included as part of the required common open space.
      (4)   In proposed cluster developments, for each square foot of land
gained through the reduction of the minimum lot area per unit, equal amounts of
land shall be set aside as permanent common open space within the cluster
development. However, the minimum lot area per unit shall not be reduced to
less than 50% of that which is required in §
153.055.
   (D)   Common open space.
      (1)   Each development shall provide an area or areas devoted to open
space or recreational facilities, including space for community buildings and
community use facilities, such as adult recreation and child play areas and
swimming pool with such areas indicated on a map submitted by the applicant.
Such areas shall contain no structure other than those related to recreational
use and shall not include drives and roads, parking areas or private open
space. Open space shall not be separated from the development by existing
roads. The amount of required common open space is based on the type of
development as follows:
         (a)   For multi-family and attached-single family developments, an
area not less than 10% of the gross area shall be devoted to open space and
comply with the requirements of this chapter; and
         (b)   For cluster developments, an area equal to or greater than the
amount of land gained through the reduction of the minimum lot area per unit
for each dwelling unit in the development shall be devoted to open space and
comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   To the extent possible, designated open space shall be contiguous
acreage. Except areas that by their nature have a linear configuration, such as
buffers, waterbodies or trail links, the length to width ratio of any parcel of
open space shall not exceed 4:1.
      (3)   Required common open space shall not be depleted, reduced in size
or converted to any other use.
      (4)   Storm water management ponds or basins may be included as part of
the minimum required open space.
      (5)   Land set aside for such open space or recreation purposes shall be
subject to legally enforceable reservations and restrictions that will ensure
the preservation of the land in perpetuity and absolutely prohibit development
of such land except for permitted recreational use by the owners and residents
without profit. Copies of the proposed documents that provide for the permanent
preservation of open space shall be submitted with the application. No such
application shall be approved until such documents are acceptable to the
village in form and content.
   (E)   Private open space. In addition to the required common open space,
there shall be a minimum of 120 square feet of private open space provided
adjacent to each dwelling unit and differentiated from common areas by means of
such approved features as plantings, fences, walls, screens, patios or decks.
   (F)   Design standards. Multi-family, attached single-family and cluster
developments shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the following
design standards:
      (1)   Attractive variations in facade, width, color, exterior materials
and rooflines shall be deemed desirable. Furthermore, parallel arrangements of
buildings shall be avoided;
      (2)   In developments of multiple buildings, other than single-family
detached dwellings, the minimum separation between buildings shall be no less
than 20 feet. Buildings may be attached if the Planning Commission determines
that site design will be improved as a result. However, attached buildings
shall be designed with visible off-sets or with substantial variations in
alignment;
      (3)   Attached single-family dwellings shall be in groups of not less
than two and not more than six dwelling units; and
      (4)   Development shall be landscaped with lawns, plantings and
appropriate trees as approved by the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Parking. As a component of the parking required in §§
153.080 through
153.083, the Planning Commission may require that one-half off-street parking
space per dwelling unit be provided in common parking areas distributed
throughout the development in a manner providing convenient access to all
dwelling units.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.101 MARIJUANA ADULT USE CANNABIS OPERATORS, INCLUDING CULTIVATORS,
PROCESSORS, AND DISPENSARIES.
   (A)   No adult use cannabis operator, as defined in R.C. § 3780.01(A)(2),
which definition includes without limitation adult use cannabis cultivators,
processors, and dispensaries, shall be located or operate within the
corporation limits of the Village of Strasburg.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent "home grow"
cannabis use as defined in R.C. § 3780.29.
(Ord. O-31-2022, passed 8-2-2022; Ord. O-2-2024, passed 2-6-2024; Ord. O-15-
2024, passed - -2024) Penalty, see §
153.999
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES
§ 153.110 PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   In order to preserve and conserve the natural resources of the village for
the present and future use of the residents of the village and in the interest
of protecting the public health, safety and welfare of said residents,
performance requirements for commercial and industrial uses shall apply.
   (A)   Requirements. No proposed use in a B or M District shall be permitted
that will create any dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable
element or condition so as to adversely effect the surrounding area or
adjoining premises. The following performance requirements shall apply to all
proposed uses in the B and M Districts.
      (1)   Fire hazards. Any activity involving the use or storage of
flammable or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting
and fire suppression equipment and such safety devices as are normally used in
the handling of any such material.
      (2)   Radioactivity or electrical disturbance. No activity shall emit
dangerous radioactivity at any point or electrical disturbance adversely
affecting the operation at any point of any equipment other than that of the
creator of such disturbance.
      (3)   Noise and vibration. No activity shall emit noise or vibration
which is objectionable because of intermittence, beat, frequency or shrillness.
Noise or vibration may equal but shall not exceed average street traffic noise
or vibration on the nearest street bordering a non-commercial or non-industrial
use. Noise or vibration resulting from temporary construction activity that
occurs between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. shall be exempt from the requirements of
this section.
      (4)   Smoke and air pollution. No establishment shall be permitted to
emit into the air smoke, fly ash, dust, fumes, vapors, gases and other forms of
air pollution except as permitted and approved by the Ohio EPA Division of Air
Pollution Control.
      (5)   Odors. No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which is
offensive or as to produce a public nuisance or hazard on any adjoining lot or
property.
      (6)   Glare. No direct or reflected glare shall be permitted which is
visible from any property outside a B or M District or from any public street,
road or highway.
      (7)   Erosion. No erosion, by either wind or water, shall be permitted
which will carry objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
      (8)   Surface water and ground water pollution. No use or construction of
any improvement upon any premises shall be commenced or altered without first
notifying the Planning Commission of the intended use, construction or
alteration of use or construction, and without first obtaining the necessary
permits of the exceptions from the state, Environmental Protection Agency, or
other state or federal regulatory authority, including, but not limited to,
industrial wastewater discharge permits to install under the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act, as amended; the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended;
the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended; and other federal or state laws as
they may affect surface water and ground water resources. Notwithstanding the
fact that all permits have been obtained and all notification has been given
pursuant to the immediately preceding subsection, any commercial or industrial
entity shall further be prohibited from engaging in any or all of the following
activities:
         (a)   On-site disposal and/or containment of domestic, industrial,
commercial and animal wastes, not treated in accordance with EPA standards;
         (b)   The operation of animal feed lots, breeding and rearing pens;
         (c)   Burial of storage tanks; and
         (d)   Drilling of gas or oil or water wells, except those water wells
required by federal, state or local governing bodies, including, but not
limited to, EPA.
      (9)   Other hazards. Other hazards not specifically addressed by the
performance standards established herein shall be made known to the Zoning
Inspector by any establishment proposing to locate in a B or M District.
Regulations for such hazards shall be as determined by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Administration and enforcement provisions.
      (1)   All applications for zoning certificates shall be accompanied by
certification from a professional engineer registered in the state that the
proposed use can meet the performance standards set forth in division (A) of
this section. The Zoning Inspector may waive all or part of this requirement
when it is determined that the proposed use is not relevant to the performance
standards.
      (2)   Methods and procedures for the determination of the existence of
any dangerous and/or objectionable elements shall conform to the measurement
standards of the Ohio EPA or other regulatory agency applicable to the
situation being considered.
      (3)   The Zoning Inspector shall investigate any reported violation of
the performance requirements. If the Zoning Inspector finds that a professional
determination of the existence and nature of the violation is necessary, the
services of an engineer or qualified professional may be authorized by the
Village Council. The cost of such services incurred by the village in
establishing a violation shall be paid by the violator if such violation is
established. If no violation is established, the cost shall be borne by the
village.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
Statutory reference:
   Atomic Energy Act of 1954, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.
   Federal Water Pollution Control Act (now the Clean Water Act), see R.C. § 33
and U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
§ 153.111 MINERAL EXTRACTION, STORAGE AND PROCESSING.
   Extraction, storage and processing of minerals shall be permitted only in
those districts specified in the use regulations of §§
153.040 through
153.043, in accordance with the performance requirements of §
153.110, and the following requirements.
   (A)   Mineral extraction, storage or processing shall not be conducted
closer than 500 feet from any R District, nor closer than 200 feet from any
structure used for human occupancy in any other district.
   (B)   Buildings and structures associated with mineral extraction, storage
or processing, for which no future use is documented by the operator shall be
demolished and removed.
   (C)   Prior to the issuance of a zoning certificate, the operator of the
proposed use shall file with the Zoning Inspector a plan providing the items
required by §
153.167 and the following:
      (1)   A location map which clearly shows areas to be mined and the
location of adjacent properties, roads and natural features;
      (2)   Information on the anticipated depth of excavations and probable
effect on the existing water table, public utilities, roads and surface
drainage; and
      (3)   A detailed plan for the restoration of the area to be mined which
shall include the anticipated future use of the restored land, the proposed
final topography indicated by contour lines of no greater interval than five
feet, the type and number per acre of trees or shrubs to be planted, and the
location of future roads, drives, drainage courses or other improvements
contemplated.
   (D)   The operator shall file with the Council a bond payable to the village
and conditioned on the faithful performance of all requirements contained in
the approved restoration plan. The rate, per acre of property to be mined, of
the required bond shall be as fixed by ordinance of the Council. The bond shall
be released upon written certification of the Zoning Inspector that the
restoration is complete and in compliance with the restoration plan.
   (E)   When determined to be necessary for the protection of public safety,
the Planning Commission may require fencing to be erected and maintained around
the entire site or portions thereof.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.112 AUTOMOBILE WRECKING AND METAL SALVAGING.
   (A)   The dismantling, wrecking or salvaging of materials, including, but
not limited to, automobiles, trucks, motor vehicles or heavy equipment for the
sale or storage of the salvaged parts or material shall be permitted only in an
M-2 District in accordance with §
153.040 and properly screened in accordance with this section.
   (B)   The dismantling, wrecking or salvaging operation shall be effectively
screened from public view on all sides by means of walls, fences or plantings.
Walls or fences shall be a minimum of eight feet in height with no advertising
thereon. In lieu of such wall or fence, a strip of land not less than 15 feet
in width and planted and maintained with an evergreen hedge or dense planting
of evergreen shrubs not less than eight feet in height may be substituted.
Storage of materials shall not exceed the height of the screening.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.113 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS.
   Temporary buildings and construction trailers used in conjunction with
construction work only may be permitted in any district during the period of
construction work is in progress. Such temporary buildings shall be removed at
such time that active construction ceases.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.114 OPEN STORAGE AND DISPLAY OF MATERIAL AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Screening required. The open storage and display of material and
equipment incident to permitted or conditional uses in B or M Districts shall
be permitted; provided the area used for open storage and display shall be
effectively screened from all adjoining properties in any R District by means
of walls, fences or plantings. Walls or fences shall be a minimum of four feet
in height without advertising thereon. In lieu of such wall or fence a strip of
land not less than ten feet in width and planted and maintained with an
evergreen hedge or dense planting of evergreen shrubs not less than four feet
in height at the time of planting may be substituted.
   (B)   Temporary storage. The temporary open storage of contractor’s
equipment and material shall be permitted on the site upon which buildings or
structures are being erected or installed and shall be removed at such time
that active construction ceases.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.115 SITE PLAN REVIEW FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Planning Commission review required. Site plans for the development of
commercial and industrial projects that include new construction as well as
structural alterations as defined in this chapter, shall be submitted to the
Commission for review and approval prior to the issuance of a zoning
certificate. Submission of site plans for the development of commercial and
industrial projects shall be acted upon within 60 days of the date of a
complete submission to the Commission.
   (B)   Review criteria. The site plan review process is intended to help
ensure that newly developed properties or redeveloped properties are compatible
with adjacent development, and that safety, traffic and environmental impacts
are minimized to the greatest extent possible. The Planning Commission shall
use the following standards when reviewing the site plan.
      (1)   Commercial and industrial uses shall be designed to:
         (a)   Shift drive-up windows, loading docks and overhead doors on the
opposite side from residential property;
         (b)   Locate parking facilities adjacent to residential property;
         (c)   Locate trash bins, dumpsters and storage areas away from
residential property; and
         (d)   Locate office portions of a facility nearest to residential
property.
      (2)   When multiple buildings are proposed for a coordinated development,
required setbacks shall be maintained around the perimeter of the group of main
buildings and the boundary of the parcel. No minimum distance between the group
of main buildings is required; however, such intervening space shall allow for
adequate circulation and emergency access around each building.
      (3)   Points of access or other means of vehicular ingress and egress
shall be situated so as not to interfere with traffic flow and to provide safe
and convenient access and to maintain adequate sight distances.
      (4)   Landscaping shall be designed to:
         (a)   Maintain existing mature trees and shrubs to the maximum extent
possible;
         (b)   Screen unsightly activities from public view;
         (c)   Break up large expanses of pavement with plant material; and
         (d)   Provide an aesthetically pleasing landscaping design.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.116 ADULT BUSINESSES..
   (A)   Location. Subject to all other local and state laws, an adult business
may be located only in accordance with the following restrictions:
      (1)   An adult business may only be located in an M District;
      (2)   No such business shall be located on any lot fronting on Wooster
Avenue;
      (3)   No such business shall be located within 1,000 feet of any
residentially-zoned district or any residentially-used lot, public library,
private or public elementary or secondary school, public park, or place of
worship; and
      (4)   No such business shall be located within 1,000 feet of another
adult business.
   (B)   Measurement to property lines. For the purpose of this section,
measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure
used as part of the premises where an adult business is conducted, to the
nearest property line of the premises of a use set forth in division (A)(3) of
this section.
   (C)   Measurement to other adult business. For the purpose of this section,
measurement between two adult businesses shall be made in a straight line,
without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior
wall of the structure in which each business is located.
   (D)   Non-conforming status. An adult business lawfully operating as a
conforming use is not rendered a non-conforming use by the subsequent location
of a residentially-zoned district or any residentially-used lot, public
library, private or public elementary or secondary school, public park, or
place of worship within 1,000 feet of the adult business.
   (E)   Hours of operation. No adult business shall be open between the hours
of 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (F)   Signs and advertising. Advertising, signs or any other exhibit
depicting adult entertainment activities shall be arranged or screened to
prevent public viewing from outside the building or premises. No outdoor
loudspeakers or other outdoor sound equipment advertising or directing
attention to an adult use is permitted.
   (G)   Limitations. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit or
limit the display, sale, rental of descriptive, printed, film or video material
or any live performance which, taken as a whole, contains serious literary,
artistic, political, medical, educational or scientific value.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
SIGNS
§ 153.130 PURPOSE.
   No sign shall be constructed, erected, moved, enlarged, illuminated,
substantially altered or permitted in any district except as hereinafter
provided. All signs shall be considered permanent, temporary, exempt or
prohibited.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.131 INTENT.
   The purposes of these sign regulations are:
   (A)   To effectively communicate information while maintaining pedestrian
and traffic safety;
   (B)   To protect and enhance the unique character of the community by
encouraging signs to be compatible with their surroundings;
   (C)   To maintain the community’s ability to attract sources of economic
development and growth;
   (D)   To minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on adjoining
properties; and
   (E)   To fairly and consistently enforce the sign regulations.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.132 TYPES AND STANDARDS OF SIGNS ALLOWED WITH PERMITS.
   The types of signs described below are allowed with a sign permit, subject
to the regulations of this chapter. Except as provided for in division (A) of
this section, no sign shall be used for display of advertising except that
pertaining to the use carried on within such building.
   (A)   Billboard sign. A freestanding sign to be permitted only if it is
located adjacent to the interchange of a controlled access highway, primarily
designed to convey information which is not related to the principal use of the
land on which such sign is located. Such sign shall be considered the main use
of the property on which it is located and shall conform to the following:
      (1)   No billboard shall be located within 1,000 feet of another
billboard abutting either side of the same street;
      (2)   The height of such signs shall not exceed 100 feet;
      (3)   The maximum area of any face of such signs shall not exceed 200
square feet; and
      (4)   Such signs shall be immovable and, if illuminated, must maintain
constant illumination and not flash.
   (B)   Bulletin board sign. A sign erected by a charitable, educational or
religious institution for purposes of providing general information or
announcing events that are held on the premises. Bulletin boards for a church,
school, community or similar institutional use shall be permitted; provided the
area for such bulletin board or sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area
per sign face. Such signs may be erected not less than ten feet from the
established right-of-way line of any street. Bulletin board signs are not
permitted for dwellings.
   (C)   Canopy sign. A sign that is displayed and affixed flat on the surface
of a canopy and does not extend beyond the limits of the canopy. Such sign is
permitted as part of an awning, canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural
protective cover over a door, entrance or window. The lowest point of a canopy
shall be at least nine feet above a sidewalk or other walkway and at least 17
feet above a driveway or road. One such sign is permitted on a premises, and
conveying information about activities conducted on the premises. If any
portion of the sign projects above a public sidewalk or right-of-way, the owner
shall maintain in force liability insurance in such form and such amount as the
village may determine.
   (D)   Home occupation sign. A sign on the premises of a home occupation.
Only one such sign is permitted, which shall be no more than two square feet in
size and shall be limited to a wall sign. Illumination of such signs is
prohibited.
   (E)   Monument sign. A sign permitted in lieu of a pole sign and mounted on
a base which is set firmly in the ground, of which the top of the sign is not
more than four and one-half feet high. Such sign shall not exceed 25 square
feet in area per sign face. Such signs may be erected not less than ten feet
from the established right-of-way.
   (F)   Pole sign. A sign which is attached to or a part of a self-supporting
structure. A freestanding sign may be erected to serve a business or a group of
business establishments. Such sign shall be a maximum of 30 feet in height,
having a maximum total sign area of 100 square feet with no portion of the sign
located closer than ten feet to any street right-of-way line. The supporting
structure of a pole sign shall be set firmly in or below the ground not closer
than five feet to any street right-of-way line. There shall be only one pole
sign for each building, regardless of the number of businesses conducted in
said building. No part of such sign shall project into the right-of-way of any
street. In the case of a lot occupied or intended to be occupied by a group of
businesses, the sign permit shall be issued in the name of the lot owner or
agent rather than in the name of individual businesses. The village shall not
be responsible for enforcing the provisions of any allocation formula, lease or
other private restriction.
   (G)   Projecting sign. A sign attached at an angle or perpendicularly to a
wall of a building or structure. Only one such sign is permitted, which shall
be no more than eight square feet per sign face. Such signs shall not project
further than four feet measured from the face of the main wall of the building;
provided that no part of the projecting sign shall extend nearer than one foot
to a curb line. The lowest point of a projecting sign or any part thereof shall
be at least nine feet above a sidewalk or other walkway and at least 17 feet
above a driveway or road. If any portion of the sign projects above a public
sidewalk or right-of-way, the owner shall maintain in force liability insurance
in such form and such amount as the village may determine.
   (H)   Roof sign. A sign erected or constructed as an integral part of a
normal roof structure. Such signs may be erected provided that no part of the
sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that no
part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more than
six inches.
   (I)   Sidewalk sign. A freestanding sign, not fixed to the sidewalk, which
is placed on the sidewalk abutting the wall near the public entrance of a
business only during those hours in which the establishment is open to the
public. Examples include, but are not limited to, messages about special sales,
daily menus or regular merchandise. A sidewalk sign may be designed as, for
example, a small pole-type sign or A-frame sign. Such signs shall have no
illumination, and no elements that move or give the illusion of movement. The
height of such sign shall be a minimum of three feet and a maximum of four
feet. The maximum width shall be two feet. The base of such sign shall not
exceed six square feet. The purpose of these requirements is to provide safety
for pedestrians, including ability for most people to see over the sign,
sturdiness so that signs are not easily moved or tipped over and to maintain
space for pedestrian traffic. Not more than one sidewalk sign is permitted per
establishment. The owner shall accept all liability for such sign. No sidewalk
sign may obstruct a fire escape, door or other entrance or exit. The Zoning
Inspector may prohibit those sidewalk signs where safety and emergency forces
have determined that a hazardous condition will result from the location of
such signs.
   (J)   Street banner sign. A temporary banner suspended across a street,
which is authorized by Village Council related to non-commercial special
events, and which is intended for a limited period of display as determined by
Village Council. The minimum clearance beneath the banner shall be 16 feet.
   (K)   Subdivision or multi-family development signs. A sign located at the
entrance of a unified residential development for identification purposes. Such
signs may be erected at any entrance to a residential subdivision or multi-
family development; provided that there may be not more than two signs
identifying such subdivision or development. The total surface area of all such
signs located at a single entrance may not exceed 32 square feet.
   (L)   Temporary sign. A sign, or other advertising device, with or without a
structural frame, in which the characters, letters, illustrations or
embellishments are applied to non-rigid plastic, vinyl, paper or fabric of any
kind. Such signs shall be related to special events, and are intended for a
limited period of display. Temporary signs may be erected for a maximum period
of 30 days per event. Any such sign posted or utilized for a longer period than
30 days must meet the requirements for permanent signs set forth in this
chapter. The area of temporary signs shall be considered as part of the total
square footage allowed for all signs and the total area of temporary signs
shall not exceed a combined total of 50 square feet.
   (M)   Temporary construction sign. A temporary sign placed upon property for
the purpose of advertising the sale or development of said property, and/or to
identify the sponsors and agencies involved in the development. A temporary
construction sign may not be illuminated, shall be erected only on the property
for sale or being developed and shall not be in excess of 50 square feet.
Additional signs may be requested or required by the village to direct
construction traffic.
   (N)   Wall sign. A sign attached parallel to, or painted on the wall or
window surface, that is confined within the limits of an outside wall and
displays only one sign surface. Such signs shall be attached directly to a
wall, or painted on the wall or window surface, with the face of the sign
parallel to the building wall. Projections of wall signs shall not exceed two
feet measured from the face of the main wall of the building.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.133 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   A permit is not required for the types of signs listed below. Exempt signs
shall conform to all provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Public signs. Notices by government agencies, including traffic-
control signs and other official signs and notices, but excluding signs posted
by private individuals and organizations and which are intended to be seen by
the public.
   (B)   Sales or rental of premises. Signs not exceeding 12 square feet in
area, and advertising the sale, rental, lease or auction of the premises on
which the sign is located.
   (C)   Customary residential signs. Non-illuminated signs not exceeding a
total of four square feet in area that are customarily associated with
residential use and that are not of a commercial nature, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Signs giving property identification names or numbers or names of
occupants;
      (2)   Signs on mailboxes or newspaper tubes; and
      (3)   Signs posted on private property warning the public against
trespassing, danger from animals or other non-commercial message.
   (D)   Integral decorative or architectural features. Integral decorative or
architectural features of buildings or works of art.
   (E)   Incidental signs directing and guiding traffic on private property.
Incidental signs directing and guiding traffic on private property that do not
exceed four square feet and contain no advertising matter. Not more than one
such sign shall be erected in each 200 feet of street frontage.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.134 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited in all districts:
   (A)   Signs imitating warning signals. No sign shall display intermittent
lights resembling the flashing lights customarily used in traffic signals or in
police, fire, ambulance or rescue vehicles, nor shall any sign use the words
“stop”, “danger” or any other word, phrase, symbol or character in a manner
that might mislead or confuse an automobile or other vehicle driver.
   (B)   Illegal signs. No sign is permitted which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter or which cannot be demonstrated by the owner to
have legal non-conforming status to the satisfaction of the village.
   (C)   Signs within street rights-of-way. Except as herein provided, no sign
shall be placed in any public right-of-way except publicly-owned signs,
including, but not limited to, traffic-control signs and directional signs.
Signs shall not be erected or otherwise fixed to any utility pole, tree, stone,
fence, building, structure or other object within any right-of-way.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.135 PERMITTED SIGNS BY TYPE AND ZONING DISTRICT.
   Signs are permitted in accordance with all requirements of this chapter and
the table set forth below. Signs not exempt or specifically permitted in a
particular district are expressly prohibited in that district. “P” means
permitted with permit.
Zoning District
Sign Type S-1 R- R R- 1 R- 2 R- 3 R- 4 B- 1 B- 2 B- 3 M- 1 M- 2
Zoning District
Sign Type              S-1 R- R R- 1 R- 2 R- 3 R- 4 B- 1 B- 2 B- 3 M- 1 M- 2
Billboard                                                P         P    P
Bulletin board         P   P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P
Canopy                                              P    P    P    P    P
Home occupations           P    P    P    P    P
Monument               P                                 P    P    P    P
Pole                                                     P    P    P    P
Projecting                                          P    P    P
Roof                                                     P    P    P    P
Sidewalk                                            P
Street banners                                      P
Subdivision                P    P    P    P    P
Temporary              P   P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P
Temporary construction P   P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P
Wall                   P   P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P    P
 
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.136 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR ALL TYPES OF SIGNS.
   (A)   Maximum allowable sign area. The area of all permanent and temporary
advertising signs for any single business enterprise may have an area
equivalent to one and one-half square feet of sign area for each lineal foot of
width of a building, or part of a building, occupied by such enterprise, but
shall not exceed a maximum area of 100 square feet. For the purposes of this
chapter, width shall be measured along the building face nearest parallel to
the street line. In the case of a corner lot, either frontage may be used in
determining maximum area of the sign.
   (B)   Determination of sign surface area. The area of a sign shall be
measured by the following method.
      (1)   Areas excluded from calculation. Sign area shall not include
foundations, supports or a base which contains no sign related elements.
      (2)   Frame or cabinet. The area of sign faces enclosed in frames or
cabinets shall be based on the outer dimensions of the frame or cabinet
surrounding the sign face.
      (3)   Base material. When a sign is on a base material, such as a wood
board or plexiglass panel, and attached without a frame, the sign area shall be
the dimensions of the base material
      (4)   Faces containing advertising. In computing the area of signs, all
faces on which advertising is displayed are considered sign area.
      (5)   Area within a rectangle. When signs consist of individual elements
attached or painted on a wall, window or canopy, the sign area is determined by
a rectangle drawn around all the elements.
   (C)   Sign bonus. The Planning Commission may, but is not required to, grant
a sign bonus if in its determination a proposed sign is produced with
outstanding artistry and craftsmanship. The purpose of the sign bonus is to
protect the unique, small town identity of the village by encouraging one-of-a-
kind signs of exceptional design and quality.
      (1)   Applicability of sign bonus. The sign bonus may be applied to the
following types of signs:
         (a)   Canopy;
         (b)   Monument;
         (c)   Pole;
         (d)   Roof; and
         (e)   Wall.
      (2)   Outstanding design and craftsmanship. A sign bonus may be granted
if the proposed design is one-of-a-kind, is especially creative, crafted with
exceptional skill or uses unusually beautiful materials. Creative elements to
be considered should include lettering, pictures and patterns, framing, poles
and mountings, colors, shape and placement. A design that is used at other
establishments in or outside of the community, even if it is of exceptional
quality, does not qualify for the bonus.
      (3)   Bonus dimensions. For applicable signs, the following bonuses may
be granted:
         (a)   Up to 15% increase of maximum sign area allowed; and
         (b)   Up to 15% increase in maximum height allowed.
   (D)   Illumination of signs. The following provisions shall be observed in
the illumination of signs and advertising structures.
      (1)   Internal or reflected light permitted. All signs and advertising
structures, except as otherwise restricted, may be illuminated internally or by
reflected light; provided the source of light is not directly visible and is so
arranged as to reflect away from the adjoining premises; and provided that such
illumination shall not be so placed as to cause confusion or a hazard to
traffic or conflict with traffic-control signs or lights.
      (2)   No appearance of flashing lights. No illumination involving
flashing, movement or causing the illusion of movement by reason of the
lighting arrangement or other devices shall be permitted except that portion of
a sign indicating the time, date or weather conditions.
   (E)   Setbacks for signs. Except as provided elsewhere in this chapter,
signs shall conform to setback requirements as follows.
      (1)   Near intersections. At intersection of any streets, the setback of
any billboard shall not be less than 100 feet from the established right-of-way
of each street.
      (2)   Signs facing an R District. No sign shall be permitted which faces
the front lot line of any lot in any R District within 100 feet of such lot
line.
      (3)   Side and rear setbacks. Signs shall be erected or placed in
conformity with the side and rear yard requirements of the district in which
located, except no sign shall be erected or placed closer than within 50 feet
to a side or rear lot line in a B or M District which is adjacent to an R
District.
      (4)   Maintain traffic visibility. No sign shall be erected which
obstructs existing traffic visibility on any public right-of-way, public
property or private property
   (F)   Materials, construction and maintenance standards.
      (1)   No permanent sign other than a canopy shall be fabricated from
fabric, flexible vinyl or non-rigid plastic.
      (2)   All signs, canopies, including all supporting framework, shall be
kept and maintained in a safe, clean and orderly condition and appearance, and
shall be repainted or otherwise maintained periodically by the owner to prevent
deterioration caused by weather, age or any other conditions
      (3)   All letters, figures, characters and embellishments on a sign shall
be safely and securely attached to the sign structure.
      (4)   Materials used in sign fabrication that will be exposed to the
weather when the sign is displayed shall be rated for exterior exposure.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.137 ABANDONED SIGNS.
   In the event a business ceases operation for a period of time in excess of
90 days, any associated signs shall be considered abandoned and subsequently
removed. Signs that pertain to a time event or purpose that no longer applies
shall also be deemed abandoned and subsequently removed. All abandoned signs
are prohibited and shall be removed by the owners of the signs or the owners of
the premises at such owner’s expense. For the purpose of this chapter, removal
of the sign shall mean the sign face and any associated supporting structures,
or, the painting over of any wall sign in such a manner to completely cover the
sign and restore the wall appearance to match the existing facade.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.138 LEGAL NON-CONFORMING SIGN.
   A legal non-conforming sign does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter, but can be demonstrated by the owner to have been lawfully erected but
made non-conforming by adoption of subsequent amendments of village ordinances.
Such signs must be maintained and repaired to ensure safe and attractive
conditions. Legal non-conforming signs shall not be otherwise altered or moved
unless made to comply with the regulations of this section. Further, any sign
or parts thereof which is removed or requires repairs which exceed 60% of its
reproduction value, shall not be rebuilt or relocated unless made to comply
with all regulations of this section. The message of a legal non-conforming
sign may be changed; provided that such a change does not increase the non-
conformity.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.139 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   Separate permits for different signs. A separate sign permit shall be
required for the erection or substantial alteration, as determined by the
Zoning Inspector, of each sign regulated in this chapter; provided, however,
that all signs erected within the first 30 days of the initial establishment of
a business may be obtained with a single permit. Repainting or changing the
message of a sign for the same business shall not, in and of itself, be
considered a substantial alteration.
   (B)   Contents of application for sign permit. A sign permit application
shall be submitted by the applicant to the Zoning Inspector who shall review
the application for completeness. The application shall contain the following:
      (1)   A letter containing the name, address, telephone number and contact
person for the applicant; a statement signed by the property owner to authorize
the applicant to submit the application. The letter may, but is not required
to, contain a written description of the proposed sign, a statement describing
how the sign complies with the regulations of this chapter;
      (2)   Drawings to scale of the sign, including the maximum sign area,
height, color scheme, lettering or graphic style, lighting and materials;
      (3)   A plot plan of the proposed site showing the location of the
proposed sign, location of buildings, parking lots, driveways, existing signs
and landscaped areas on and adjacent to the proposed site; and zoning of
adjacent properties;
      (4)   A fee as determined by the village;
      (5)   The scale of drawings submitted with the application shall be
sufficient to adequately evaluate whether the proposed signs comply with the
regulations of this chapter; and
      (6)   The Zoning Inspector may waive any of the above requirements when,
in his or her opinion, such detail is not required.
   (C)   Sign permit expiration.
      (1)   Permits for street banner signs shall expire according to the
determination of the Village Council.
      (2)   Permits for temporary signs shall expire after the 30th day of
display, or after one year, whichever is first.
      (3)   Permits for temporary construction signs shall expire one year
after the date of approval and may be extended by the Zoning Inspector for good
cause; provided that substantial progress is being made on the development.
      (4)   Permits for the erection, construction or alteration of all other
signs shall expire one year after the date of approval and may be extended by
the Zoning Inspector for good cause; provided that substantial progress is
being made on work authorized by the permit. If the erection, construction or
alteration has not begun within the one year period, the permit shall be null
and void after which time a new permit must be obtained subject to the
regulations in effect at the time of submission of the new permit application.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 153.150 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to accomplish the following:
   (A)   To protect the legal status of uses and structures that were legal and
conforming to laws that were in effect prior to adoption of this chapter and
subsequent amendments;
   (B)   To permit the reasonable replacement of a legal, non-conforming use or
structure which is destroyed by a catastrophe; and
   (C)   To encourage the reasonable and eventual conversion of a legal, non-
conforming use or structure to conformance with the standards of this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.151 RESTRICTIONS ON LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Use or structure may continue after amendments. Any lawful uses of
buildings or land existing as of August 20,1996 may be continued, even though
such use does not conform to the provisions hereof, but subject to the
requirements of this chapter. Whenever the use of a building or land becomes
non-conforming through a change in the amended zoning ordinance or in the
district boundaries, such use may be continued, or structure may continue to be
used, subject to the provisions in the amended ordinance.
   (B)   Discontinuance of use. A non-conforming use which is discontinued for
a period of one year shall not again be used except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (C)   Uses or structures partially destroyed by catastrophe. A legal, non-
conforming use or structure which has been damaged by fire, explosion, act of
God or a public enemy to the extent of 60% or more of its restoration value at
the time of damage shall not be restored except in conformity with the
regulations of the district in which it is located. When damaged by less than
60% of its restoration value, a non-conforming use may be replaced, repaired or
reconstructed, and used only as before the time of damage; provided such
repairs or reconstruction are started within six months of the date of such
damage; and provided that public health, safety and welfare are not
jeopardized. The Zoning Inspector may require the property owner to remedy any
public nuisance or safety hazard resulting from the damage to the structure.
Such remedies shall be subject to review and approval of emergency and safety
forces. If repairs or reconstruction or not completed within two years of the
date of such damage, the property and any structures shall not be used except
in conformance with all provisions of this chapter. In the event that the owner
and the village do not concur on the reproduction value, a determination of
reproduction value shall be made by three practicing building construction
contractors, one to be appointed by the owner, one to be appointed by the
municipality, and the third selected by the mutual consent of the two parties.
Costs for the services of the building construction contractors shall be borne
by the applicant.
   (D)   Conditional uses are not made legal, non-conforming uses. It is not
the intention herein to classify as non-conforming a use or building allowed in
a district as a conditional use under the regulations of this chapter.
   (E)   Uses and structures approved but not yet existing. Any building
arranged, intended or designed for a non-conforming use, or which would be a
non-conforming structure, and which has been granted final approval of a zoning
certificate, conditional use permit, variance and all other permits or
approvals, excluding the zoning compliance inspection, prior to the adoption of
this chapter may be completed as a legal, non-conforming use or structure and/
or used for such legal, non-conforming use; provided it is completed within one
year after this chapter or any subsequent applicable amendment takes effect.
   (F)   Determination of legal, non-conforming status. Any person or
corporation claiming the right of operation or use as a pre-existing legal non-
conforming use as described in this chapter shall make and preserve reasonable
records and other proofs of the existence and extent of such use at the time it
becomes non-conforming when this chapter or any subsequent amendment takes
effect. In those circumstances where the village and the property owner do not
agree on the status of a particular use, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall make
any final determination on the status of a non-conforming use. Any property
owner, tenant or lessee may apply to the Board of Zoning Appeals for a
determination of the status of a non-conforming use. Such application may be
made even if there is no proposed alteration of a structure or use.
   (G)   Use may be extended in a structure. The legal, non-conforming use of a
building may be extended throughout those existing parts of the building which
were arranged or designed for such use; provided, however, that no non-
conforming use shall be extended to displace a conforming use.
   (H)   Expansion of legal, non-conforming use. No such non-conforming use
shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended to occupy more than 10% more than
the ground area devoted to the use which existed at the time such use became
non-conforming.
   (I)   Replacement of a legal non-conforming use. When any non-conforming use
is replaced by a permitted use, the use shall thereafter conform to the
regulations for the district and no non-conforming use shall thereafter be
resumed. No non-conforming use shall be changed to another non-conforming use.
   (J)   Alteration of dilapidated structures. If a non-conforming structure
becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs and maintenance,
and is declared by any duly authorized official to be unsafe or unlawful by
reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored, repaired or
rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it
is located.
   (K)   Structures may be repaired for wear. Nothing in this subchapter shall
prevent the reconstructing, repairing or rebuilding of a non-conforming
building, structure or part thereof rendered necessary by wear and tear,
deterioration or depreciation; provided that the cost of such work done in any
period of 12 consecutive months does not exceed 20% of the replacement value of
such building or structure at the time such work is done.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.152 EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL OF CHANGES.
   Any approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals of a change in a legal, non-
conforming use and/or structure shall expire if the use is not conducted as
approved, or if construction of approved changes is not commenced within six
months of the date of approval.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.165 ZONING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Duties of Zoning Inspector. It shall be the duty of the Village Zoning
Inspector, who shall be appointed by the Village Council, to enforce this
chapter. It shall also be the duty of all officials and employees of the
municipality to assist the Zoning Inspector by reporting to the Inspector or
his or her designee upon new construction, reconstruction, or land uses or upon
seeming violations. The Zoning Inspector shall make no change in this chapter
nor vary the terms of this chapter in carrying out the duties of the position
of Zoning Inspector.
   (B)   Appeal of Zoning Inspector decisions. Appeal from the decision of the
Zoning Inspector may be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals, as provided in §§
153.190 through
153.195.
   (C)   Zoning Inspector maintains records. The Zoning Inspector shall
maintain records of applications for action by the Zoning Inspector, Planning
Commission and Board of Zoning Appeals, all actions of Council pertaining to
this chapter, all zoning certificates and inspection reports, and all approved
and rejected applications. Copies shall be furnished upon request to any person
having proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land affected. A fee
for copies may be charged as determined by Council.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.166 ZONING PERMISSION FOR A STRUCTURE OR USE.
   (A)   Zoning certificate required. It shall be unlawful for an owner to
construct, create, erect, change, convert, enlarge or otherwise alter any
structure, building or land, or part thereof, until a zoning certificate shall
have been issued by the Zoning Inspector. No property or part thereof shall be
used for the operation of a business without a zoning permit.
   (B)   Zoning certificates are issued by Zoning Inspector. It shall be the
duty of the Zoning Inspector to issue the zoning certificate; provided he or
she is satisfied that the structure, building or premises and the proposed use
thereof conform with all the requirements of this chapter. The Zoning Inspector
shall issue no such permits unless the plans, specifications and the intended
use conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Projects requiring zoning permission. A zoning certificate shall be
required for any use or structure which is regulated by this chapter, including
all of the following:
      (1)   Construction or structural alteration of any building or structure;
      (2)   Construction or structural alteration of accessory structures,
including, for example, garages, barns, gardening sheds, gazebos, storage
buildings, swimming pools, landscaping structures, driveways, parking and
sidewalks;
      (3)   Change in use of land, an existing structure or an existing
accessory structure to a use of a different use which shall include another
permitted use within the same zoning district;
      (4)   Any change in the use of a legal, non-conforming use or structure;
      (5)   Restoration of a legal, non-conforming use or structure to repair
damage done by a catastrophe as described in §§
153.150 through
153.152;
      (6)   Demolition or removal of an existing structure; and
      (7)   Using the property or any structure on the property for the
operation of a business.
   (D)   Projects which do not require zoning permission. Zoning permission is
not required for projects involving the maintenance or repair of a structure
and/or site improvements which are necessary to maintain such structure in good
condition.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.167 APPLICATION FOR ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Submittal requirements. Zoning certificates are issued on the basis of
plans and specifications submitted to and approved by the Zoning Inspector. An
application for a zoning certificate shall contain two original, collated sets
of the information listed below. Applicants are encouraged, but not required,
to contact the Zoning Inspector to review the requirements for applications
prior to submittal.
      (1)   An application form, available from the Zoning Inspector, to be
completed and signed by the applicant and property owner(s);
      (2)   A site and building plan as described in this section;
      (3)   A fee as required in this chapter; and
      (4)   A description of any business to be operated on the property
   (B)   Contents of site and building plan. The site and building plan shall
show the information listed below. The scale of plans shall be sufficient to
adequately evaluate whether the proposed site and building plan complies with
the regulations of this chapter.
      (1)   Project name, location and address, if available;
      (2)   Applicant’s name;
      (3)   Map showing the general location of the project, including scale
and north arrow;
      (4)   Location and names of street(s) providing access to the project,
and exact location of the project in relation to the nearest cross street;
      (5)   Lot, parcel numbers and zoning district of the project and all
adjacent properties, including across streets;
      (6)   Dimensions of the lot(s), and location and use of existing
structures and water bodies;
      (7)   Required setback lines;
      (8)   Location, height, size and use of proposed and existing structures
and yards, according to all dimensions that are regulated in this chapter;
      (9)   Location, width and names of existing streets, railroad rights-of-
way and easements;
      (10)   Existing sewers, water lines, culverts and other underground
structures, and power transmission poles and lines, within and adjacent to the
site;
      (11)   Location and sites of proposed easements and municipal utilities;
      (12)   Location and dimensions of all vehicular and pedestrian facilities
within and adjoining the site;
      (13)   Location and dimensions of all off-street parking areas, including
entrance driveways, maneuvering lanes, service lanes, loading areas and similar
areas;
      (14)   Location, dimensions and proposed uses of all on-site recreation
areas;
      (15)   Locations of fire lanes;
      (16)   Locations of refuse disposal, storage and removal areas;
      (17)   Locations, type and size of plant material or fences for any
required buffers;
      (18)   Statement that no part of the land involved in the application has
been previously used to provide required yard space or lot area for another
structure;
      (19)   Statistical data on all relevant characteristics of the proposed
development, including number and size of dwelling units, percentage of lot
coverage, total gross and net acreage, numbers, and dimensions of parking
spaces including handicapped accessible spaces;
      (20)   The names of the building or paving contractor and the sewer and
water contractor;
      (21)   Survey by a registered engineer or surveyor; and
      (22)   Any other information which in the judgment of the Zoning
Inspector may be necessary to provide for the administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Zoning Inspector may require additional data or waive some data. The
Zoning Inspector shall have the authority to require additional data in an
application if it is necessary to determine if the proposed project conforms to
the requirements of this chapter. The cost of additional information shall be
borne by the applicant. Additionally, the Zoning Inspector shall have the
authority to waive some data required in the application if he or she
determines that it is not needed to evaluate whether the application complies
with the provisions of this chapter. The intent of this provision is to provide
sufficient data and to avoid unnecessary delay or expense to the applicant and
village in the preparation and review of applications for zoning certificates.
It is not the intent of this section to waive all requirements for a site and
building plan, because such documentation is necessary to verify conformance
with, for example, setbacks, buffers, use of primary and accessory structures,
and parking requirements.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.168 APPLICATION REVIEW AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Application review. An application for a zoning certificate shall be
processed as follows.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit the application to the Zoning Inspector
who shall determine whether the application is complete. If the application is
deemed to be incomplete, the Zoning Inspector shall promptly inform the
applicant. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to prepare a
complete application if consideration is to be given to such application.
      (2)   If the application is determined to be complete, the Zoning
Inspector shall evaluate the proposed project for conformance with this chapter
within a reasonable time period. If the proposed project is determined to be in
conformance, the Zoning Inspector shall promptly issue a zoning certificate. If
the proposed project is determined to be not in conformance with this chapter,
the Zoning Inspector shall promptly inform the applicant in writing of the
refusal and the reasons for the determination.
      (3)   The Zoning Inspector shall mark all sets of the application and
plans as “approved” or “disapproved” and shall sign the documents. The Zoning
Inspector shall maintain one set of the approved or disapproved application,
and the approved zoning certificate on file in the village offices. One set of
the approved or disapproved documents shall be transmitted to the applicant.
   (B)   Zoning certificate is issued after approvals. The Zoning Inspector
shall not issue a zoning certificate for any application requiring a
determination by the Village Council, Planning Commission or Board of Zoning
Appeals unless the proposed project has been granted all final approvals by all
such authorities.
      (1)   When such approvals are final, and the applicant has not been
required to submit revised plans, the Zoning Inspector shall promptly issue the
zoning certificate.
      (2)   When all necessary approvals by the Council, Planning Commission or
Board of Zoning Appeals are final, and the applicant has been required to
submit revised plans, the Zoning Inspector shall determine whether the revised
plans are in conformance with the approval by such authorities. If the Zoning
Inspector determines that the revised plans are in conformance, he or she shall
promptly issue the zoning certificate. If the Zoning Inspector determines that
the revised plans are not in conformance, the Zoning Inspector shall promptly
notify the applicant in writing, and state the reasons for the refusal of the
zoning certificate. Further revised plans may be submitted by the applicant for
determination of compliance by the Zoning Inspector.
      (3)   If revised plans are a condition of approval of the Planning
Commission and/or Council, the approval of the Village Council, Planning
Commission or Board of Zoning Appeals shall expire in 60 days after such final
approval if the applicant fails to submit revised plans which are determined to
be in conformance by the Zoning Inspector.
   (C)   Expiration of zoning certificate. The zoning certificate shall expire
if the use, as approved, has not been conducted, or if the structure, as
approved, has not been occupied after one year of the date of approval. After
the expiration date, the application for such zoning certificate shall be
considered null and void.
   (D)   Extensions. The expirations set forth in this section may be extended
by the Zoning Inspector in the event of a change in circumstances and good
cause shown by the applicant.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.169 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Adequacy of utilities. A zoning certificate or certificate of
occupancy may be denied by the Zoning Inspector if he or she determines that
the sanitary sewer system or public water system is not adequate to service the
additional improvements). Such determination shall be made upon the
consultation with and recommendation of other village officials, including, but
not limited to, the Village Engineer, Water and Sewer Department, and Village
Council. In no case shall the village be required or obligated to provide new
systems to service the proposed improvement.
   (B)   Drainage requirements. A zoning certificate may be denied by the
Zoning Inspector if he or she determines that the overland or concentrated
drainage will be affected in such a manner that it will cause public health
problems or will have a detrimental effect on the public drainage system or the
public street or alleys. Such determination shall be made upon the consultation
with and recommendation of other village officials, including, but not limited
to, the Village Engineer, Water and Sewer Department, and Village Council. The
Inspector may require the applicant to provide detailed information regarding
the draining problem or solution thereof from a registered professional
engineer at the applicant’s own expense.
   (C)   Building locations to be staked. Where construction or physical
improvement of land is involved, the lot and location of the buildings to be
erected thereon shall be staked out on the ground before construction is
started and all dimensions shown on the filed plans shall be subject to
inspection by the Zoning Inspector. The applicant must notify the Inspector
when staking is completed. The Inspector shall check the stakes within a
reasonable time and the stakes shall not be removed until the Inspector gives
permission.
   (D)   Curbs and sidewalks. All new curbs and sidewalks shall be approved by
the Village Street Superintendent prior to construction of such and, at that
time, the Village Street Superintendent shall inform the applicant of the final
curb height or shall make available other pertinent information regarding the
curb or walks. Determination as to whether a sidewalk or curb should be staked
rests with the Village Street Superintendent after review of the situation.
   (E)   Inspection of curbs and sidewalks. All curbs and sidewalks within the
village right-of-way shall be built to village standards as established by the
village authorities. On completion of installation of forms for sidewalks or
curbing, the applicant must notify the Inspector to schedule an inspection
which he or she should complete within a reasonable time after being notified.
   (F)   Deed restrictions. The village does not assume any responsibility for
the enforcement of restrictions previously set forth in the deed to the
property for which application is made. Any plat restriction or variance
governed by existing or new subdivisions shall take precedence over these rules
and regulations. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
restriction to which the village has been made a party.
   (G)   Safety requirements. At all times during construction, each owner or
agent shall provide for the prevention of any public nuisance or safety hazard
on site, including, but not limited to, securing exposed foundations and areas
of excavation, and, prompt removal of debris.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.170 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Compliance inspection required. Approval of a zoning certificate shall
not be final until the premises have been inspected by the Zoning Inspector and
issued a certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall be issued
if the Zoning Inspector determines that the structure and/or use permitted in
the zoning certificate has been constructed and/or operated in compliance with
the zoning certificate.
   (B)   Occupancy may not commence without certificate of occupancy. Initial
occupancy of a building or land, completion of an activity requiring a zoning
certificate, and for non-residential uses, occupancy which commences with a
change of use, tenancy, business ownership or termination of a vacancy of six
months or more shall require a certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   Application for certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy
shall be applied for coincident with the application for a zoning certificate.
The applicant shall provide access to all areas of the property as needed to
make a complete check of all features regulated by the provisions of this
chapter. The applicant is encouraged, but not required, to contact the Zoning
Inspector to review the requirements for application prior to submittal.
   (D)   Process for issuance of certificate of occupancy. An application for a
certificate of occupancy shall be processed as follows:
      (1)   The applicant shall notify the Zoning Inspector of the completion
of the work authorized by the zoning certificate and request an inspection of
the premises. If the applicant declines to make the premises available for
inspection according to the provisions of this section, the certificate of
occupancy shall not be issued;
      (2)   The Zoning Inspector shall make a physical inspection of the
premises. It is strongly recommended, but not required, that the applicant or
the applicant’s representative attend the inspection;
      (3)   The Zoning Inspector shall determine if the premises are in
conformance with this chapter. If the premises are determined to be in
conformance, the Zoning Inspector shall issue a certificate of occupancy. If
the premises are not in conformance, the Zoning Inspector shall promptly notify
the applicant of the actions to be completed in order for the certificate of
occupancy to be issued; and
      (4)   The Zoning Inspector shall mark the application materials as
“approved” or “disapproved” and shall sign the documents. The Zoning Inspector
shall maintain one set of the approved or disapproved application, and the
approved zoning certificate if applicable, on file in the village offices. One
set of the approved documents shall be transmitted to the applicant.
   (E)   Expiration of certificate of occupancy. The certificate of occupancy
shall expire in 60 days if the structure or use is not occupied or conducted as
approved.
   (F)   Extensions. The expirations set forth in this section may be extended
by the Zoning Inspector in the event of a change in circumstances and good
cause shown by the applicant.
   (G)   Certificate of occupancy for an existing use or structure. A property
owner, tenant or lessee may make a written request to the Zoning Inspector for
a certificate of occupancy for any building or premises existing at the time of
enactment of this chapter. After reviewing the application and inspecting the
premises, the Zoning Inspector shall document the extent and kind of uses made
of the building or premises and issue a written determination as to compliance
with this chapter. There shall be no fee for a certificate of occupancy issued
in accordance with this section.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.171 FEES.
   (A)   Fees charged. Fees shall be charged which are sufficient to cover the
costs of administration. No application shall be officially accepted until all
required fees have been paid. A fee, in accordance with the following schedule
of amounts, shall accompany each application for a zoning certificate or
certificate of occupancy.
 Fee
                                                                                   Fee
Application to Board of Zoning Appeals                                             $100
Application to Planning Commission
   Change in zoning district
      Change of one lot or parcel                                            $100
      Each additional lot or parcel                                          $25
   Conditional use permit                                                       $50
   Temporary use                                                                $25
   Text amendment                                                               $100
Certificate of occupancy
   Application for a certificate of occupancy as set forth in §                $25
153.170
Zoning certificate (includes accompanying certificate of occupancy)
   Accessory building, structure or fences                                      $25
   Commercial, industrial or institutional                                      $100
      Each additional 5,000 square feet of commercial or industrial building $25or
space or fraction thereof in excess of 10,000 square feet of floor space
   Dwelling, per unit, including manufactured homes                             $50
   Expanded home occupation                                                     $25
   Non-residential addition or alteration, or demolition                        $25
   Request for the operation of any business activity on-premises               $25
   Residential addition or alteration, or demolition                            $25
   Sign, billboard                                                              $100
   Sign, on-premises                                                            $25
 
   (B)   Deposit of fees. The Zoning Inspector shall forthwith deposit all fees
with the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Zoning Inspector may double fee charged. In the event that development
is undertaken or a use commenced before a zoning certificate has been obtained,
the Zoning Inspector may double the fee charged for the zoning certificate.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.172 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to locate, erect, construct, reconstruct, enlarge,
change, maintain or use any building, structure or land in violation of any
regulation in or any provisions of this chapter, or any amendment or supplement
thereto adopted by the Council.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.173 REMEDIES.
   Any certificate, including approvals and permissions by any authority of the
village, issued upon a false statement of any fact, whether or not given
intentionally, which is material to the issuance thereof, shall be void.
Whenever the fact of such false statement shall be established to the
satisfaction of the Village Council, the certificate shall be revoked.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.174 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Any person may file a complaint in regard to an alleged violation of
this chapter. All such complaints shall be in writing and shall be filed with
the Zoning Inspector, who shall promptly record and investigate such complaint.
If the village investigates an alleged violation, and the premises are found to
be in compliance with this chapter, the Village Council may, but is not
required to, charge reasonable costs of investigation to the complainant. Such
charge may be made if, for example:
      (1)   An individual or entity makes repeated complaints of alleged and
disproved violations of the same type, or against the same or different
premises;
      (2)   There is no obvious or reasonable observation of a violation; or
      (3)   Similar circumstances.
   (B)   It is the intent of this provision that the cost of reasonable
complaints shall be borne by the village, whether or not a violation is found
to exist. Further, the intent of this provision is to discourage harassment of
occupants and property owners who are in compliance with this chapter, and
improper use of village resources.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.175 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   If the Zoning Inspector finds that any provisions of this chapter are being
violated, he or she shall proceed as follows.
   (A)   The Zoning Inspector shall notify in writing the owner of record or
authorized agent in violation. The notice shall indicate the nature of the
violation, order the action necessary to correct the violation, and advise that
the order may be appealed to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   Such notice shall be served by the Zoning Inspector to the property
owner and the occupant of such premises in writing. Further, the Zoning
Inspector shall post such notice in a conspicuous place upon the premises of
the violation. Such notice shall remain as posted until removed by the Zoning
Inspector who shall do so only when all corrections are complete.
   (C)   After such an order is served or posted on the premises, no work,
except to secure the property or correct such violation and comply with this
chapter, shall be permitted on any building or tract of land included in the
violation. Corrections shall be made only after all necessary permits have been
approved.
   (D)   If the owner or authorized agent fails to comply with such order
within 60 days after notice has been served, the Village Solicitor may be
authorized by Village Council to institute appropriate action to prevent
enjoin, abate or eliminate such violation.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.176 LEGAL ACTION AGAINST VIOLATORS.
   In any case where any building is or is proposed to be located, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, enlarged, changed, maintained or used, or any land
is or is proposed to be used in violation of this chapter or any amendment or
supplement thereto, the Zoning Inspector, Village Solicitor or any adjacent or
neighboring property owner who would be specially damaged by such violation, in
addition to other remedies provided by law, may institute injunction, mandamus,
abatement or any other appropriate action, actions, proceeding or proceedings
to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove such unlawful location, erection,
construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change, maintenance or use.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 153.190 PURPOSE, ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Board of Zoning Appeals (Board) is to hear
appeals of decisions made by the Zoning Inspector; consider variances where
there are unnecessary physical hardships in carrying out the strict
interpretation of this chapter; providing such exception is in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this chapter and in accordance with the
procedures and provisions specified in this subchapter; and to perform other
duties as determined by the Village Council. The Board shall have the powers
and duties as described in this chapter.
   (B)   Appointment. There is hereby established a Board of Zoning Appeals
which shall consist of five electors appointed by the Village Council. The
Council shall choose a successor to fill any vacancy. The five electors first
appointed shall serve for terms of one, two, three, four and five years,
respectively; thereafter appointments shall be for five-year terms, beginning
January 1. Each member shall serve until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified. Vacancies shall be filled by the Council and shall be for the
respective unexpired term. The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals may
receive such compensation as the Council provides.
   (C)   Organization. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson
and at such other times as the Board may determine. The hearings of the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall be public. However, the Board may go into executive
session for discussion but not for vote on any case before it. The Board shall
organize annually and elect a President, Vice-President and Secretary. The
Board shall adopt from time to time such rules and regulations, as it may deem
necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Quorum. Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The
concurring vote of three members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse any
order or determination of the Zoning Inspector, to decide in favor of an
application in any matter in which the Board has original jurisdiction under
this chapter, or to grant any variance from the requirements stipulated in this
chapter.
   (E)   Minutes and records. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed with the office
of the Clerk and shall be a public record.
   (F)   Witnesses and oaths. The Board shall have the power to subpoena
witnesses, administer oaths and punish for contempt, and may require the
production of documents under such regulations as it may establish.
   (G)   Department and Planning Commission assistance. The Board may call upon
the various officials and employees of the village for assistance in the
performance of its duties and it shall be the duty of such departments to
render such assistance to the Board as may reasonably be required. The Planning
Commission may provide such reports, information and recommendations prior to
the Board’s consideration of any case.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.191 APPLICATIONS.
   An application, in cases in which the Board has original jurisdiction under
the provisions of this chapter, may be taken by any person aggrieved, including
a tenant, or by a governmental officer, department, board or bureau. Such
application shall be filed with the Zoning Inspector who shall transmit same to
the Board. An application to the Board shall contain two original, collated
sets of the information listed below. Applicants are encouraged, but not
required, to contact the Zoning Inspector to review the requirements for
applications prior to submittal. No hearing will be scheduled until a complete
application is filed which contains the following:
   (A)   An application form, available from the Zoning Inspector, to be
completed and signed by the applicant and property owner(s);
   (B)   A site and building plan as described in §
153.192(A) and (B);
   (C)   Names and addresses of owners of properties within 200 feet of the
subject property; and
   (D)   A fee as required in this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.192 HEARINGS.
   (A)   Notices required. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of an appeal, give at least ten days public notice thereof in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village and at least ten days’ notice
to owners of property within 200 feet of the subject property. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to provide names and addresses of property
owners. The applicant shall be advised of the date, time and place of the
hearing and further, that he or she or a representative must appear to have the
application or appeal heard. The chairperson of the Planning Commission shall
be given at least ten days’ notice of a scheduled hearing
   (B)   Public hearings. The hearings of the Board shall be public. However,
the Board may go into executive session for discussion but not vote on any case
before it.
   (C)   Adjourned hearings. Upon the day for hearing any application or
appeal, the Board may adjourn the hearing in order to permit the obtaining of
additional information or to cause such further notice as it deems proper to be
served upon such other property owners as it decides may be substantially
interested in said application or appeal. In the case of an adjourned hearing,
persons previously notified and persons already heard need not be notified of
the time of resumption of said hearing unless the Board so decides.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.193 ACTIONS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   Decision of the Board. The Board shall decide all appeals and
variances within 30 days after the final hearing thereon.
   (B)   Transmittal of Board decision to applicant. A certified copy of the
Board’s decision shall be transmitted to the applicant and property owner which
was the subject of the appeal. Such decision shall be binding upon the Zoning
Inspector and observed by him or her, and he or she shall incorporate the terms
and conditions of the same in the permit to the applicant or appellant,
whenever a permit is authorized by the Board.
   (C)   Date decision of the Board becomes final. A decision of the Board
shall not become final until the expiration of five business days from the date
such decision is made, unless the Board shall find the immediate taking effect
of such decision is necessary for the preservation of property or personal
rights and shall so certify on the record.
   (D)   Board action and appeal of Board decision. The Board may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirements, decision or
determination appealed from and shall make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as in its opinion ought to be made in the premises, and to that
end, shall have all powers of the Zoning Inspector from whom the appeal is
taken. Any party adversely affected by a decision of the Board may appeal to
the Court of Common Pleas of the county on the ground that the decision was
unreasonable or unlawful.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.194 APPEALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of an application for appeal is to give the Board
the opportunity to ensure that village ordinances have been properly
interpreted and enforced by the Zoning Inspector. It is not intended to permit
the Board to override the purpose and intent of village ordinances which may
only be done through legislative action by the Village Council.
   (B)   Deadline for filing appeal. An appeal to the Board may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by an officer of the village affected by any decision of
the Zoning Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within 20 days after the
initial decision by the Zoning Inspector , by filing with the Zoning Inspector
and with the Board, a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The
Zoning Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was taken. The
appeal shall include application materials as required in §
153.191.
   (C)   Appeal stays further proceedings. An appeal shall stay all proceedings
in furtherance of the action appealed from unless the Zoning Inspector shall
certify to the Board of Zoning Appeals after the notice of appeal shall have
been filed with it that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay
would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property in which
case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order
which may be granted by the Board or by a court of equity after notice to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due cause shown.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.195 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Criteria for variances. The Board shall have the power to hear and
decide appeals and authorize such variances from the provisions or requirements
of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public interest, but only in
such cases where, owing to special conditions pertaining to a specific piece of
property, the literal enforcement of the provisions or requirements of this
chapter would cause undue and unnecessary hardship. In authorizing a variance,
the Board may attach such conditions and require such guarantee or bond as it
may be necessary to assure compliance with the objectives of this chapter. When
considering a request for a variance, the Board may grant a variance in the
application of the provisions of this chapter only if all of the following
required findings are made:
      (1)   That there are unique physical circumstances or conditions,
including irregularity, narrowness or shallowness of lot size or shape, or
exceptional topographical or other physical conditions of the property
generally created by the provisions of this chapter in the neighborhood or
district in which the property is located, and not by an action or actions of
the property owner or the applicant;
      (2)   That because of such conditions or physical circumstances, there is
no possibility that the property can be developed in strict conformity with the
provisions of this chapter and that the authorization of a variance is
therefore necessary to enable the reasonable use of the property;
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will not adversely affect the
rights of the adjacent property owners or residents;
      (4)   That the strict application of this chapter of which the variance
is requested will constitute unnecessary hardship upon the property owner or
the applicant, and that such unnecessary hardship has not been created by the
appellant;
      (5)   That the variance, if authorized, will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood or district in which the property is located;
      (6)   That the variance desired will not adversely affect the public
health, safety, morals or general welfare;
      (7)   That the variance will not adversely affect the delivery of
emergency, safety or government services; and
      (8)   That the variance, if authorized, will represent the minimum use or
area variance that will afford relief and will represent the least modification
possible of the regulation and issue.
   (B)   Board may recommend zone change. The Board may determine that the
requested use or structure is not eligible for a variance, but may form the
opinion that the proposed project is otherwise acceptable. The Board may make a
recommendation to the Council for an amendment to this chapter. Notwithstanding
the action of the Board, the applicant may apply for a zone change according to
the ordinances of the village.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
PLANNING COMMISSION; DISTRICT CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
§ 153.205 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Planning Commission is to review and make recommendations
regarding zoning-related matters, such as regulations and policies, to review
and authorize projects which conform to the provisions of this chapter, and to
perform other duties as determined by the Village Council. The Planning
Commission shall have the powers and duties as described in this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.206 ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Appointment. The Planning Commission has been established by Council
pursuant to R.C. § 713.01 and consists of five voting members, including the
Mayor, one member of the legislative authority to be elected thereby for the
remainder of his or her term as such member of the legislative authority and
three citizens to be appointed by the Mayor for terms of six years each. All
such members shall serve without compensation. Any member may hold any other
public office.
   (B)   Officers and rules. The Planning Commission shall organize annually
and elect a chairperson, vice-chairperson and Secretary. The Commission shall
adopt, from time to time, such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary
to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that
such rules are consistent with all other ordinances of the municipality.
   (C)   Quorum. Three members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. A
simple majority of the Planning Commission, if in attendance, shall be
necessary to take any action in which the Commission has jurisdiction.
   (D)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at
such other times as the Commission may determine. All meetings of the Planning
Commission shall be public.
   (E)   Minutes and records. The Planning Commission shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately
filed in the office of the Clerk and shall be a public record.
   (F)   Officials and employees shall assist Commission. The Planning
Commission may call upon the various officials and employees of the village for
assistance in the performance of its duties, and it shall be the duty of such
officers and departments to render such assistance to the Planning Commission
as may reasonably be required.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.207 APPLICATIONS TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Any person, firm or corporation owning or leasing land and/or a structure or
portion of a structure may file an application with the Zoning Inspector who
shall transmit same to the Planning Commission. Applicants are encouraged, but
not required, to contact the Zoning Inspector to review the requirements for
applications prior to submittal. An application to the Planning Commission
shall contain two original collated sets of the information listed below:
   (A)   An application form, available from the Zoning Inspector, to be
completed and signed by the applicant and property owner(s);
   (B)   A site and building plan as described in §§
153.167(B) and (C);
   (C)   Names and addresses of property owners and occupants of properties
within 200 feet of the subject property; and
   (D)   A fee as required in this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.208 NOTICES AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   Date for public hearing. Upon the filing of an application, the
Commission shall, when required, set a date for a public hearing thereon, which
date shall not be less than 20 nor more than 40 days from the date of the
filing of a complete application.
   (B)   Public hearing by Commission. Before submitting its recommendation on
a proposed amendment to the Village Council, the Commission shall hold a public
hearing, notice of which shall be given by publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the municipality at least 20 days before the date of the
hearing. The notice shall state the place or places and times at which the
proposed amendment to the ordinance, including text and maps, may be examined.
   (C)   Notice to property owners. If the proposed amendment or supplement
intends to rezone or redistrict ten or less parcels of land, as listed on the
tax duplicate, written notice of the hearing shall be mailed by first-class
mail at least 20 days before the date of the public hearing to all owners of
property within and contiguous to and directly across the street from such area
proposed to be rezoned to the address of such owners appearing on the County
Auditor’s current tax list or the Treasurer’s mailing list and to such other
list or lists that may be specified by the Commission. The notice shall state
the place or places and times at which the proposed amendment to the ordinance,
including text and maps, may be examined. The failure to notify, as provided in
this section, shall not invalidate any recommendations adopted hereunder, it
being the intention of this section to provide, so far as may be possible, due
notice to persons substantially interested in the proposed change that an
application is pending before the Commission, proposing to make a change in the
zoning district map or the regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.209 ACTION BY THE PLANNING COMMISSION; COUNCIL.
   (A)   Action of Commission. The Planning Commission shall make a
recommendation on the proposed amendment to the Village Council. The Commission
may recommend that the application be approved as requested, it may recommend a
modification of the zoning amendment requested in the application or it may
recommend that the application be not approved. The Planning Commission shall
make its recommendation within 30 days after the public hearing
   (B)   Public hearing and action by the Village Council. The recommendation
of the Commission along with any necessary supporting documents shall be
forwarded to Village Council for their review. After receiving said
recommendation and before adoption of such amendment, the Village Council shall
hold a public hearing thereon, at least 30 days’ notice of the time and place
of which shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
the municipality. The notice may run concurrently with the notice of the
Planning Commission hearing required by §
153.208(B) and shall state the place or places and times at which the proposed
amendment to the ordinance including text and maps may be examined and other
notices as required by state statutes. Within 20 days after holding the public
hearing, the Village Council shall consider such recommendations and vote on
the amendment. No such ordinance, which differs from or departs from the
recommendation of the Commission, shall take effect unless passed or approved
by not less than three-fourths of the membership of the Council.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.210 DISTRICT CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Procedure for change in chapter.
      (1)   Amendments or supplements to the zoning ordinance may be initiated
by motion of the Planning Commission, by the passage of an ordinance therefor
by the Village Council, or by the filing of an application therefor by one or
more of the owners or lessees of property within the area proposed to be
changed or affected by the proposed amendment or supplement with the Planning
Commission. Additionally, any resident, property owner or official of the
community may suggest an amendment to this chapter, which the Council and/or
the Planning Commission may decide to study.
      (2)   Whenever a lot split, or creation of a new lot, results in one of
the new lots being subject to two different zoning districts, the Commission,
by motion and majority vote, may zone that lot to become wholly the district
representing the majority of the lot. Absent that action, zoning would need to
be established for the multi-zoned lot as defined in §§
153.208 and
153.209 or otherwise stay as a multi-zoned lot.
   (B)   Criteria for amendments. Amendments to the zoning ordinance and the
district map may be approved if all of the following criteria are met:
      (1)   The amendment is consistent with the purpose of the district;
      (2)   The property to be rezoned is similar in character to other areas
of the community that which are in the same zoning district; and
      (3)   The amendment will not create a case of spot zoning, i.e., assign a
property to a zoning district where it does not conform to the purpose.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.211 LAND ANNEXED TO THE VILLAGE.
   All land annexed to the village subsequent to the adoption of this chapter
shall remain subject to the previous county or township zoning district until
such time as the official district map is amended according to the provisions
of this subchapter. All land annexed to the village which, prior to annexation,
is not subject to county or township zoning shall remain unzoned until the
official district map is amended according to the provisions of this
subchapter. The Planning Commission shall recommend an appropriate zoning
classification for newly annexed land to Council. This classification will be
determined through the amendment procedures as set forth in this subchapter, in
conjunction with the annexation request. In order for an annexation request to
be considered, the applicant must submit an application requesting the
determination of zoning classification in accordance with §
153.207.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.212 CONDITIONAL USE REQUIRES PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   Conditional use approval from the Planning Commission shall be required
prior to the issuance of zoning certificates for certain types of uses, so
classified because of their uncommon or unique characteristics, infrequency of
occurrence, large area requirements or special nature relative to size, design,
location and mode of operation that each use be considered individually. Such
use shall not be permitted by right. Uses which are conditionally permitted in
§§
153.040 through
153.043 must conform to all requirements of the zoning district, and may be
permitted only if they conform to standards provided in this subchapter.
   (A)   Criteria for conditional use. The Planning Commission shall review an
application for a conditional use in terms of the following standards and shall
find adequate evidence that such use at the proposed location shall conform to
the following standards:
      (1)   Harmony with neighborhood character. Will be in harmony with the
existing or intended character of the neighborhood and that such use will not
change the essential character of the area;
      (2)   No adverse impacts on neighbors. Will not adversely affect the use
of the adjacent property;
      (3)   No hazard to health, safety and welfare. Will not adversely affect
the health, safety or welfare of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood;
      (4)   Adequate public facilities. Will be served adequately by public
facilities and services such as, but not limited to, streets, police and fire
protection, drainage facilities, water, sewer or schools; and
      (5)   Conforms with intent of chapter. Will be in accordance with the
general or specific objectives, and the purpose and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   Action by the Planning Commission. If after review of the information
available, the Commission finds that, in its opinion, a request does not meet
the above criteria, the request shall be denied. In granting any conditional
use permit, the Planning Commission may impose such conditions in connection
therewith as it may deem necessary to protect the public welfare and
convenience, preserve the purpose and intent of this chapter, and protect the
character of the neighboring properties. Such conditions may include, but shall
not be limited to, the regulation of:
      (1)   Screening and buffers;
      (2)   Noise;
      (3)   Hours of operation;
      (4)   Access and traffic;
      (5)   Location of parking;
      (6)   Glare;
      (7)   Vibration;
      (8)   Odors;
      (9)   Dust;
      (10)   Smoke;
      (11)   Hazardous materials; and
      (12)   Waste disposal.
   (C)   Terms of approval of conditional uses.
      (1)   If a conditional use approved by the Commission is sold, leased or
transferred, the successor or assigns shall be bound by the same conditions as
approved by the Planning Commission. Any alteration of the conditionally
permitted use by the successor or assign shall require approval by the Planning
Commission of a new, separate conditional use permit.
      (2)   Conditional use approval shall become null and void if within six
months of the date of issuance, the property owner or agent does not apply for
a zoning certificate, or if the use shall cease for a period of one year after
it has been established.
   (D)   Revocation of conditional use permit. A conditional use permit may be
revoked if the established conditions for approval are violated. The Zoning
Inspector shall advise the Planning Commission of any violations, and the
Planning Commission may then revoke the conditional use permit in accordance
with §
153.172.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any regulation in or any
provision of this chapter, or any amendment or supplement thereto, shall be
deemed guilty of a minor misdemeanor. Each and every day during which such
illegal location, erection, construction, reconstruction, enlargement, change,
maintenance or use continues may be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of §§
153.130 through
153.139 pertaining to signs shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day shall
constitute a separate violation and shall be punished by a fine in the amount
of $100 per day.
(Ord. O-38-2020, passed 12-14-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   EASEMENTS
      
IV.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
V.   VACATIONS
      
VI.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
O-18-96       - -1996     Annexation of 15.927 acres owned by Demattio
                          Construction, Inc.
O-08-98       6-2-1998    Annexation of 9.257 acres of land owned by Ardyze M.
                          Malcuit Family Limited Partnership
O-07-2000     3-21-2000   Annexation of 1.8365 acres owned by Gene C. Hensel
O-15-2000     9-5-2000    Annexation of 0.641 acre of land owned by Samuel and
                          Gloria Amistadi
                          Annexation of 17.1771 acres owned by Klapper Real
O-01-2002     3-19-2002   Estate, Inc., Sam and Gloria Amistadi, Marbel Energy
                          Corporation, and John F. and Janice M. Hawk
O-02-2002     3-19-2002   Annexation of 19.607 acres owned by the Ardyze M.
                          Malcuit Family Limited Partnership
O-18-2003     8-20-2003   Annexation of 5.551 acres of land owned by Campbell
                          Oil and WSCS, Ltd.
O-01-2006     3-7-2006    Annexation of 29.075 acres of land owned by the
                          Strasburg- Franklin Local Board of Education
O-05-2006     6-6-2006    Annexation of 2.0988 acres of land owned by
                          Diversified Properties and Renovations, LLC
O-14-2017     6- -2017    Annexation of 0.769 acre of land owned by David E.
                          Jones and Bonnie L. Jones
O-24-2017     - -2017     Annexation of 11.6526 acres owned by DC 15, LLC
O-15-2018     - -2018     Annexation of a section of Ninth Street at the Mickey
                          Mart property owned by DC 15, LLC
O-01-2018     1-4-2018    Annexation of 0.769 acre of landed owned by David E.
                          Jones and Bonnie L. Jones
O-02-2018     1-4-2018    Annexation of 11.65 acres of land owned by DC 15, LLC
                          Annexation of 0.4865 acre of land on a portion of
                          Ninth Street, SW; 0.7068 acre of land on a portion of
                          Tiger Drive located adjacent to Sixth Street, SW and
O-09-2019     - -2019     Grandview Union Cemetery; 1.224-acre tract of land
                          located immediately east of the Strasburg-Franklin
                          School building facilities; and 7.484 acres of land
                          located off of Dundee- Strasburg Road, NW and
                          adjacent to Pine Ridge
                          Annexation of 7.484 acres, more or less, owned by
O-11-2020     - -2020     Pine Ridge Investments of Strasburg, LLC and Stenwood
                          Development, Ltd.
                         
 
TABLE II: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
O-04-93   - -1993     Agreement with Amish Farmers Flea Market regarding
                      collection of income taxes
O-16-93   - -1993     Agreement with Do- Mor Refuse Service for trash removal
                      services
O-17-93   5-4-1993    Contract with Franklin Township for fire protection and
                      emergency services
O-32-93   10-5-1993   Agreement with J.P. Bergren Company for purchase of
                      Deskins inline sludge dewatering system
O-19-94   6-21-1994   Enterprise zone agreement with Allied Baltic Rubber to
                      construct a plant for operations
R-5-95    - -1995     Contract to receive Issue II water funding
O-8-95    - -1995     Contract with J & J Refuse, Inc. for trash removal
                      services
O-12-95   - -1995     Contract with Dover Township for fire protection and
                      emergency services
O-13-95   7-3-1995    Contract with Franklin Fire Equipment Company for
                      purchase of ambulance
O-16-95   - -1995     Contract with Newton Asphalt Paving, Inc. for purchase of
                      asphalt
R-4-96    - -1996     Contract to receive Issue II water treatment plant
                      funding
R-5-96    - -1996     Contract to receive Issue II wastewater funding
O-07-96   5- -1996    Enterprise zone agreement with Allied Baltic Rubber to
                      construct a plant for operations
O-14-96   9- -1996    Contract with Newton Asphalt Paving, Inc. for paving and
                      resurfacing project on Railroad Avenue, NE
O-11-97   - -1997     Contract with Franklin Township for fire protection and
                      emergency services
O-15-97   5- -1997    Contract with G.A. Simmons, Inc. for installation of new
                      water lines on Wooster Avenue and First Street
O-29-97   9- -1997    Contract with Pierce Manufacturing, Inc. for purchase of
                      new fire truck
O-34-97   10- -1997   Cooperative agreement with the Ohio Water Development
                      Authority for state water project
O-38-97   11-4-1997   Contracts for construction of new waster treatment plant
O-5-98    4- -1998    Contract with J & J Refuse, Inc. for trash removal
                      services
O-13-98   8-18-1998   Agreement with the Ohio Water Development Authority for
                      water pollution control
O-17-98   11-17-1998  Enterprise zone agreement with Allied Baltic Rubber for
                      building expansion
O-08-99   5-18-1999   Contract with Franklin Township for fire protection and
                      emergency services
O-13-99   8-3-1999    Contract with Newton Asphalt Paving, Inc. for paving and
                      surfacing of streets and alleys
O-05-2000 3-8-2000    Contract with Red Malcuit, Inc. for grading of north
                      field of village park
O-11-2000 5-16-2000   Contract with J & J Refuse, Inc. for the collection and
                      removal of trash in the village
O-17-2000 9-5-2000    Contract with Newton Asphalt Paving, Inc. for paving and
                      resurfacing of streets and alleys
O-20-00   9-5-2000    Contract with Steven Anderson for legal services as
                      Village Solicitor
O-22-99   9-19-2000   Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-22-00   10-17-2000  Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-06-01   4-3-2001    Contract with Fitzpatrick, Zimmerman & Rose Company, LPA
                      for police prosecutor
O-07-01   4-3-2001    Contract with Richard Fox for legal counsel services
R-10-2001 11-6-2001   Contract to receive Issue II wastewater treatment plant
                      funding
O-05-2002 5-7-2002    Contract with Campbell Oil Company for supplying of
                      diesel supreme fuel and 89 octane gasoline
O-06-2002 6-4-2002    Contract with J & J Refuse, Inc. for collection of trash
                      in the village
O-09-2002 7-2-2002    Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-01-2003 1-22-2003   Contract with Village of Sugarcreek for exchange of
                      police property
O-11-03   6-17-2003   Agreement with Strasburg Antique Mall for collection of
                      income taxes
O-05-2004 - -2004     Agreement with Bert Yoder and John Rees for purchase of
                      Ninth Street, NE Mobile Home Park
O-29-03   1-7-2004    Contract with Fitzpatrick, Zimmerman & Rose Company, LPA
                      as police prosecutor
O-30-03   1-7-2004    Contract with Richard Fox for legal counsel services
                      Enterprise zone agreement with Allied Baltic Rubber
O-01-2004 1-20-2004   Corporation for abatement of new tangible personal
                      property and real property improvements
O-08-2004 5-4-2004    Contract with J & J Refuse, Inc. for collection and
                      removal of trash
O-16-04   9-21-2004   Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-01-2005 1-3-2005    Contract with Campbell Oil Company for gasoline and
                      diesel fuel
O-23-04   1-3-2005    Contract wit Franklin Township for fire protection and
                      emergency services
O-07-2005 3-1-2005    Contract with Richard Fox for legal services
O-13-2005 6-21-2005   Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-21-2005 11-1-2005   Contract to receive Issue II funding for the
                      reconstruction and water line services of Bodmer Avenue
O-23-2005 12-7-2005   Contract with Fitzpatrick, Zimmerman & Rose Company, LPA
                      as police prosecutor
O-24-2005 12-21-2005  Contract with Richard Fox for legal counsel services
O-09-2006 6-6-2006    Contract with Republic Waste Services for collection and
                      removal of trash
O-10-2006 6-6-2006    Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-18-2006 9-19-2006   Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-08-2007 5-15-2007   Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
                      Contract to receive Issue I funding for the
O-18-2007 10-16-2007  reconstruction and water line services on of Bodmer
                      Avenue
O-09-2008 5-6-2008    Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-11-2008 6-17-2008   Contract with Campbell Oil Company for gasoline and
                      diesel fuel
O-18-2008 10-7-2008   Contract with Newton Asphalt Paving, Inc. for
                      reconstruction and paving on Bodmer Avenue
O-19-2008 10-7-2008   Contract with J. L. & Son Excavating, Inc. for
                      installation of a new water line on Bodmer Avenue
O-08-2009 5-19-2009   Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-09-2009 6-16-2009   Contract with J & J Refuse, Inc. for rubbish and garbage
                      removal
O-11-2009 6-16-2009   Contract with J & J Refuse, Inc. for curbside recycling
O-14-2009 10-20-2009  Contract with Kennedy Insurance Agency for property,
                      automobile and other insurance
O-11-2010 9-21-2010   Contract with Kennedy Insurance Agency for property,
                      automobile and other insurance
O-16-2010 12- -2010   Contract with Franklin Township for fire protection and
                      emergency services
O-15-2010 11-16-2010  Contract with Franklin Township for fire protection and
                      emergency services
O-18-2010 12- -2010   Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-06-2011 3-23-2011   Enterprise zone agreement with Lincoln Manufacturing of
                      Ohio, Inc. and Ground Zero Enterprises, LLC
O-07-2011 8-16-2011   Contract with LBG Land Services, LLC for sale of
                      untreated bulk water
O-08-2011 9-6-2011    Contract with Lincoln Manufacturing of Ohio, Inc. and
                      Ground Zero Enterprises, LLC for repair of water line
O-11-2011 10-4-2011   Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-12-2011 10-4-2011   Contract with Newton Asphalt Paving, Inc. for paving of
                      Tiger Drive
O-13-2011 12-6-2011   Contract with Fitzpatrick, Zimmerman & Rose Company, LPA
                      as police prosecutor
O-14-2011 12-6-2011   Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-05-2012 5-5-2012    Contract with Campbell Oil Company for gasoline and
                      diesel fuel
O-09-2012 6-5-2012    Contract with Republic Services for collection and
                      removal of household rubbish and garbage
O-13-2012 9-18-2012   Enterprise zone agreement for all property located within
                      the corporate boundary lines for tax relief
O-16-2012 12- -2012   Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
R-03-2013 - -2013     Contract with Ohio Department of Transportation for
                      purchase of rock sale
O-29-2013 - -2013     Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-13-2013 6-18-2013   Contract with Champion Energy Services, LLC for
                      electricity services
                      Contract with Republic Waste Services for hauling and
O-14-2013 8-6-2013    disposal of sewage sludge cake from wastewater treatment
                      plant
O-21-2013 9-17-2013   Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-27-2013 10- -2013   Contract with Innovative Software Services, Inc. for
                      income tax processing services
                      Contract with Newton Asphalt Paving, Inc. for Twelfth
O-28-2013 11-19-2013  Street, Railroad Street and East First Street pavement
                      construction
O-13-2014 7-1-2014    Agreement with Ohio Department of Transportation for
                      Zeltman Avenue surfacing upgrade
O-16-2014 8-19-2014   Contract with Ann Paris for website design and hosting
                      services
O-18-2014 9-16-2014   Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-10-2015 3-7-2015    Contract with Western Branch Diesel, Inc. for emergency
                      generation equipment
                      Contract with Newton Asphalt Paving, Inc. for labor and
O-04-2015 3-17-2015   material for construction costs for Zeltman Avenue
                      project
O-19-2014 12-17-2014  Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-08-2015 3-17-2015   Contract with Gor- Con Construction, Inc. for
                      construction work at water plant
O-09-2015 3-17-2015   Contract with Wood Electric, Inc. for electrical work at
                      water plant
O-18-2015 4-21-2015   Contract with Direct Energy for supply of electric
                      utility power
R-03-2015 5-5-2015    Contract with Omnipro Services, LLC for construction of
                      Zeltman Avenue
O-17-2015 5-19-2015   Contract with Republic Services for the collection and
                      removal of household rubbish and garbage
O-25-2015 10-6-2015   Contract with K & R Construction, Ltd. for roof
                      replacement work
O-28-2015 10-6-2015   Contract with Kennedy Insurance Agency for property,
                      automobile and other insurance coverage
O-34-2015 12-16-2015  Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-01-2016 1-15-2016   Contract with Campbell Oil Company for gasoline and
                      diesel fuel
O-02-2016 2-13-2016   Contract with Franklin Township for fire protection and
                      emergency services
O-21-2016 9-6-2016    Contract with Duperon Corporation for a mechanically
                      cleaned bar screen for the wastewater treatment plant
O-22-2016 9-22-2016   Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-01-2017 1-4-2017    Contract for police prosecutor services
O-02-2017 1-4-2017    Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-22-2017 9-19-2017   Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
                      Contract with Husshr Properties, LLC, Lindsey
O-23-2017 9-19-2017   Construction and Design, Inc., and Master Renovations,
                      Inc. for asphalt shingle roof replacements
O-28-2017 12- -2017   Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-25-2017 12-5-2017   Agreement with Strasburg-Franklin Board of Education
O-10-2018 - -2018     Contract with Champion Energy Services, LLC for supply of
                      electric utility power
O-12-2018 - -2018     Contract with Kimble Recycling and Disposal, Inc. for
                      collection and removal of household trash
O-22-2018 - -2018     Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
                      Contract for water and sewer line project to be extended
O-30-2018 - -2018     to Strasburg-Franklin Joint Economic Development District
                      territory
O-32-2018 - -2018     Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-37-2018 - -2018     Cooperative agreement with Ohio Water Development
                      Authority for construction of water and sewer lines
O-01-2009 - -2019     Contract with Rudzik Excavating, Inc. for installation of
                      water line and sewer line
                      Contract for water line project to be extended to the
O-02-2019 - -2019     Strasburg- Franklin Joint Economic Development District
                      territory
O-13-2019 - -2019     Agreement with Strasburg-Franklin Board of Education for
                      maintenance of Strasburg-Franklin Park
                      Contract with Badger Construction for the demolition of
O-15-2019 - -2019     the Wesley Tolle property located at 116 North Wooster
                      Avenue
O-34-2019 - -2019     Contract with Kennedy insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-03-2019 2-6-2019    Agreement with ProVia, LLC for payment and extension of
                      water and sewer lines
O-38-2019 11-19-2019  Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
                      Contract with Stanley Miller Construction and Wood
O-17-2020 - -2020     Electric Company for work related to installation of
                      booster station on water line
                      Contract with Dirt Dawg Excavating, LLC for
O-29-2020 - -2020     reconstruction of Oak Avenue, NW between Sixth Street and
                      Seventh Street
O-35-2020 - -2020     Contract with Kennedy Insurance for property, automobile
                      and other insurance
O-36-2020 - -2020     Contract with VFIS for property, automobile and other
                      insurance
                      Contract with Gor- Con Construction, Inc. for
O-37-2020 - -2020     construction of concrete pads in lift stations for sewer
                      extensions
O-45-2020 12- -2020   Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
O-24-2021 - -2021     Contract with Kennedy Insurance Agency for general
                      liability insurance
O-31-2021 - -2021     Contract with Ohio Department of Transportation for
                      sidewalk replacement project on Bodmer Avenue
                      Cooperative agreement with the Ohio Development Authority
O-10-2021 2-16-2021   for construction on Wooster Avenue water line improvement
                      project
                      Contract with Dirt Dawg Excavating, LLC for construction
O-14-2021 4-6-2021    and installation of water line replacement for North
                      Wooster Avenue
O-17-2021 6-1-2021    Contract with Kimble Recycling and Disposal, Inc. for
                      collection and removal of rubbish and garbage
O-19-2021 7-6-2021    Contract with Red Malcuit, Inc. for Maple Avenue
                      construction project
O-34-2021 12- -2021   Contract with County Sheriff’s Office for inmate housing
                      Contract with the Ohio Department of Transportation for
R-05-2021 12-21-2021  sidewalk replacement project along west side of Bodmer
                      Avenue between Ninth Street, SW and Fifth Street, NW
O-28-2024 12-17-2024  Contract with Fitzpatrick, Zimmerman & Rose to provide
                      police prosecutor for the village.
                     
 
TABLE III: EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Accepting easement of James P. and Sherri L. Gesiotto and
O-05-99   - -1999     William K. Whitman for property located within the
                      village to be used for road purposes
                      Accepting easement of the Ardyze M. Malcuit Family
O-14-2001 6-19-2001   Limited Partnership for property located in the village
                      to be used for utility purposes
O-08-2003 4-15-2003   Accepting easement from Michael Watson and Philip Dreher
                      for water and sewer lines
O-31-2020 9-1-2020    Supplemental easement for the Beartown-West Wilmot
                      Transmission Line Project with Ohio Power
                     
 
TABLE IV: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
O-30-93   10-5-1993   Accepting Weber Avenue, Tenth Street and Fourteenth
                      Street
O-24-94   9-20-1994   Authorizing the exchange of property between Hilltop
                      Properties Limited Partnership and the village
O-25-94   9-20-1994   Accepting conveyance from Hilltop Properties Limited
                      Partnership for the extension of Railroad Street
O-18-95   11-7-1995   Authorizing purchase of real estate from the Columbus
                      Dioceses Catholic Church
O-19-95   11-7-1995   Authorizing sale of municipal building located on Second
                      Street, NW
O-20-95   11-7-1995   Authorizing purchase of 1.94 acres of land from Hilltop
                      Properties Limited Partnership
O-06-96   4- -1996    Authorizing sale of the Strasburg municipal building
                      located at 201 Second Street, NW
O-27-97   7- -1997    Accepting convey from Ardyze M. Malcuit Family Limited
                      Partnership for street purposes
O-06-99   4- -1999    Authorizing lease of property located at 965 North
                      Wooster Avenue
O-16-2003 8-20-2003   Accepting a 0.006- acre tract of land from Hostetler
                      Leasing, Ltd.
O-07-2009 6-16-2009   Accepting a 0.111- acre tract of land from Donald L. and
                      Lois E. Garber
O-04-2010 4- -2010    Authorizing deed to convey reversionary interest in
                      Tuerler Property
O-19-2011 12-21-2011  Sale of property to County Port Authority for commercial
                      and/or industrial purposes
O-16-2016 7-19-2016   Purchase of real estate located at 133 Railroad Avenue,
                      SE
                      Designating and naming a certain alley located between
O-31-2018 - -2018     Fifth Street, SW and Sixth Street, SW, together with Oak
                      Avenue, SW and Kaderly Avenue, SW, being named Kinsley
                      Lane
O-34-2020 - -2020     Dedication of Tiger Drive
O-44-2020 - -2020     Purchase of 224 Bodmer Avenue NW
O-20-2020 5-5-2020    Convey of real estate located at 116 North Wooster Avenue
 
TABLE V: VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
O-09-96  6- -1996    Vacating a 16-foot side alley of Fifth Street, SW
                    
 
TABLE VI: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
O-23-94   8-16-1994   Rezoning property owned by Hilltop Properties from M-1 to
                      S-1
O-9-95    - -1995     Zoning ten acres of land purchased from Kathleen Metzger
                      as S-1
O-15-96   9- -1996    Zoning ten acres of land purchased as S-1
O-07-97   2- -1997    Zoning ten acres of land purchased from Kathleen Metzger
                      as S-1
O-08-97   2-18-1997   Rezoning property owned by Snoozer Limited from M-1 to B-
                      3
O-09-97   3- -1997    Zoning 15.927 acres of land owned by Mattio Construction,
                      Inc. as R-1
O-16-97   5- -1997    Rezoning property located on South Wooster Avenue between
                      Fifth Street and Sixth Street, SE from M-1 to B-3
O-19-98   12- -1998   Zoning 9.257 acres of land owned by Ardyze M. Malcuit
                      Family Limited Partnership as R-1
O-12-99   7-6-1999    Rezoning property located on North Wooster Avenue from B-
                      2 to B-3
O-08-2000 4-4-2000    Zoning 1.8365 acres of land owned by Gene Hensel as R-1
O-07-2002 6-4-2002    Zoning 19.607 acres of land owned by Ardyze M. Malcuit
                      Family Limited Partnership as R-2
                      Zoning 13.1771 acres of land located on the east side of
O-15-2002 10-15-2002  U.S. Route 250 owned by Klapper Real Estate, Inc., Sam
                      and Gloria Amistadi and Marbel Energy Corporation as B-3
O-16-2002 10-15-2002  Zoning 13.1171 acres of land located on the west side of
                      U.S. Route 250 owned by John and Janice Hawk as R-2
O-4-2003  3-4-2003    Zoning 2.271 acres of land located off the South Wooster
                      Avenue as M-2
O-22-2003 10-21-2003  Zoning 2.37 acres owned by the Strasburg Development
                      Corporation as R-2
O-23-2003 10-21-2003  Zoning 3.280 acres of land located off the South Wooster
                      Avenue as B-3
O-24-2003 10-21-2003  Zoning 2.271 acres of land owned by WSCS, Ltd. located
                      off of South Wooster Avenue as M-2
O-19-2005 8-16-2005   Rezoning 6.18 acres of land located off of Twelfth
                      Street, NW from R-1 to R-2
O-08-2006 6-6-2006    Zoning 29.075 acres located off of Bodmer Avenue owned by
                      the Strasburg-Franklin Local School District as S-1
O-14-2006 9-19-2006   Zoning 2.0988 acres owned by Diversified Properties and
                      Renovations, LLC as R-2
O-10-2012 7-17-2012   Rezoning 216 Zeltman Avenue from R-2 to M-2
O-23-2015 6-2-2015    Rezoning 1.905 acres of land located on Fernsell Avenue,
                      SW from S-1 to R-2
O-06-2018 - -2018     Zoning 0.769 acre of land owned by David and Bonnie Jones
                      as R-2
O-07-2018 - -2018     Zoning 11.65 acres of land owned by DC 15, LLC as B-3
O-06-2018 4-17-2018   Zoning 0.76 acres off land owned by David and Bonnie
                      Jones as R-2
O-07-2018 4-17-2018   Zoning 11.65 acres of land owned by DC 15, LLC as B-3
O-14-2019 4-16-2019   Rezoning 140 South Bodmer Avenue from S-1 to B-2
                      Zoning 1.487 acres owned by Pine Ridge Investments of
O-25-2020 - -2020     Strasburg, LLC and located on the north side of Dundee-
                      Strasburg Road, NW as a B-2
                      Rezoning 8.520 acres of land located adjacent to the
O-18-2020 6-16-2020   corner of Ninth Street, NE and North Wooster Avenue from
                      M-1 to B-2
O-7-2023  7-5-2023    Rezoning Wooster Avenue from 3rd Street to 7th Street
                      from R-3 to B-3
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
Historical References to Ohio Revised Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
HISTORICAL REFERENCES TO OHIO REVISED CODE
R.C. Section Code Section
R.C. Section                    Code Section
1.01                            10.01(A)
1.02                            10.02
1.05                            10.02
1.14                            10.03(C)(1) - (C)(4)
1.15                            10.03(C)(5)
1.23                            10.05(A), (B)
1.42                            10.03(A)
1.43                            10.03(B)
1.44                            10.02
1.45                            10.03(C)(6)
1.46                            10.03(D)
1.47                            10.18(A)
1.48                            10.18(B)
1.49                            10.18(C)
1.50                            10.07
1.51                            10.06(A)
1.52                            10.06(B)
1.54                            10.04(D)
1.55                            10.05(C)
1.56                            10.05(D)
1.57                            10.04(A)
1.58                            10.04(B), (C)
1.59                            10.02
121.22                          30.02
128.01(A)                       136.20(A)
128.96(F) - (H)                 136.20(B) - (D)
128.99(A), (B)                  136.20(E)
149.43(B)                       30.04
149.43(E)                       30.04
701.01                          10.02
715.67                          130.99(A)
901.51                          131.21(A), (B)
901.99(A)                       131.21(C)
1349.17                         131.31(A) - (C)
1349.99(A)                      131.31(D)
1533.171(A)                     131.24(A),
                                135.05(A)
1533.99(C)                      131.24(B),
                                135.05(B)
2901.01                         130.02
2901.02                         130.03
2901.03                         130.04
2901.04                         130.05
2901.05                         130.13
2901.06                         130.14
2901.08                         130.15
2901.09                         130.21
2901.11                         130.16
2901.13                         130.06
2901.21                         130.07
2901.22                         130.08
2901.23                         130.09
2901.24                         130.10
2903.05                         135.02
2903.06                         135.03
2903.08                         135.03(F)
2903.09                         135.01
2903.10                         135.19
2903.13                         135.04(A)
2903.14                         135.04(B)
2903.16                         135.19
2903.21                         135.06(B)
2903.211                        135.06(C)
2903.22                         135.06(A)
2903.31                         135.17(A) - (D)
2903.311(B), (C)                135.17(E)
2903.33                         135.20(A)
2903.34                         135.20(B)
2903.341                        135.20(C)
2903.35                         135.20(D)
2903.36                         135.20(E)
2905.03                         135.07
2905.12                         135.09
2907.01                         133.01
2907.04                         133.02
2907.06                         133.03
2907.08                         133.05
2907.09                         133.04
2907.10                         133.06
2907.23                         133.07(A) - (C)
2907.231                        133.07(D) - (F)
2907.24                         133.08(A) - (D)
2907.241                        133.08(E) - (H)
2907.25                         133.09
2907.26                         133.13
2907.31                         133.10(A) - (E)
2907.311                        133.11
2907.33                         133.12
2907.35                         133.10(F)
2907.36                         133.14
2907.37                         133.15
2907.38                         133.16
2907.39                         133.17
2907.40                         133.18
2909.01                         131.01
2909.03                         131.02(A) - (D)
2909.06                         131.03(A)
2909.07                         131.04
2909.08(A) - (E)                131.05
2909.09                         131.03(B)
2909.10                         131.34(A) - (D)
2909.101                        131.34(E), (F)
2909.11(B) - (D)                131.02(E)
2909.31                         136.21(E), (F)
2911.21                         131.06(A) - (F)
2911.211                        131.06(G)
2911.23                         131.06(H)
2911.32                         131.07
2913.01                         131.01
2913.02                         131.08
2913.03                         131.09
2913.04                         131.10(A) - (J)
2913.07                         131.33
2913.11                         131.11
2913.21                         131.12
2913.31(B), (C)(2)              131.26
2913.32                         131.27
2913.33                         131.13
2913.34                         131.29
2913.40                         131.23(C)
2913.401                        131.23(D)
2913.41                         131.14
2913.42                         131.15
2913.43                         131.16
2913.44                         131.28
2913.441                        132.11
2913.45                         131.17
2913.47                         131.23(A)
2913.48                         131.23(B)
2913.51                         131.18
2913.61(B) - (E)                131.19
2913.71                         131.20
2913.72                         131.25(A)
2913.73                         131.25(B)
2915.01                         134.01
2915.02(A) - (G), (K)           134.02
2915.03                         134.03
2915.04                         134.04
2915.05                         134.05
2915.06                         134.14(A), (B)
2915.061                        134.14(C)
2915.09                         134.06
2915.091                        134.10
2915.092                        134.11
2915.093                        134.12(A) - (F)
2915.094                        134.13
2915.10                         134.07
2915.11                         134.08
2915.12                         134.09
2915.13                         134.12(G)
2915.14                         134.15
2917.01                         132.10
2917.03                         132.01(A) - (C)
2917.031                        132.01(D)
2917.04                         132.02
2917.05                         132.03
2917.11                         132.04
2917.12                         132.05
2917.13                         132.06
2917.14                         132.15
2917.21                         132.07
2917.211                        133.20
2917.31                         132.08
2917.32                         132.09
2917.40                         132.13
2917.41                         132.14
2919.01                         135.10
2919.21                         135.13
2919.22(A) - (E), (H)           135.14
2919.224                        135.12
2919.23                         135.15(A)
2919.231                        135.15(B)
2919.24                         135.18
2919.25                         135.16
2919.27                         135.23
2921.01                         136.01
2921.04                         136.17
2921.13                         136.02(A) - (F)
2921.14                         136.14
2921.15                         136.19
2921.21                         136.03
2921.22                         136.04
2921.23                         136.05
2921.24                         136.16(A) - (D)
2921.25                         136.16(E), (F)
2921.29                         136.21(A) - (D)
2921.31                         136.06
2921.32                         136.07
2921.321                        136.15
2921.33                         136.08
2921.331(A) - (C), (E), (F)     70.02
2921.36                         136.13(A) - (G)
2921.37                         136.13(H)
2921.42                         136.09
2921.43                         136.10
2921.44                         136.11
2921.45                         136.12
2921.51                         132.12
2921.52(A) - (D)                136.18
2923.02                         130.11
2923.03                         130.12
2923.11                         137.01
2923.12                         137.02
2923.1211(B), (C)               137.13(A)
2923.1212                       137.13(C)
2923.122(C) - (G)               137.11
2923.126                        137.13(B)
2923.131                        137.12
2923.15                         137.03
2923.16                         137.04
2923.162                        137.09
2923.18                         137.10
2923.19                         137.06
2923.20                         137.07
2923.201                        137.14
2923.211                        137.08
2923.24                         137.05
2925.01                         138.01
2925.04(A), (B), (C)(5), (G)    138.06
2925.11                         138.03
2925.12                         138.04
2925.13(A) - (C), (F)           138.05
2925.14                         138.13(A) - (G)
2925.141                        138.13(H)
2925.31                         138.07
2925.32(B)(4), (D)(2), (F), (G) 138.10(A)
2925.33                         138.10(B)
2925.34                         138.19
2925.36(A) - (C)                138.08
2925.37(A), (G)                 138.12
2925.50                         138.09
2925.51                         138.11(A) - (F)
2925.511                        138.11(G)
2925.55                         138.18(A)
2925.56                         138.18(B)
2925.57                         138.18(C)
2925.58                         138.18(D)
2925.62                         138.20
2927.01                         135.28
2927.02                         135.25(A)
2927.021                        135.25(B)
2927.022                        135.25(C)
2927.023                        135.25(D)
2927.024                        135.25(E)
2927.03                         135.21
2927.11                         131.35
2927.12                         135.22
2927.15                         135.08
2927.17                         133.19
2927.27                         130.20
2929.21                         130.99(B)
2929.22                         130.18
2929.23                         133.99
2929.24                         130.99(C)
2929.25                         130.99(D)
2929.26                         130.99(E)
2929.27                         130.99(F)
2929.28                         130.99(G)
2929.31                         130.99(H)
2929.41                         130.19
2935.041                        131.22
2935.28                         70.08
2935.36(E)                      130.02
2981.07                         131.30
2981.11                         130.17(A)
2981.12                         130.17(B)
2981.13(A)                      130.17(C)
3701.81                         135.27(A) - (C)
3701.99(C)                      135.27(D)
3715.05                         138.18(E)
3715.06                         138.18(F)
3716.11                         135.24(A)
3716.99(C)                      135.24(B)
3719.08(A), (E)                 138.14(A), (B)
3719.172(A), (B)                138.15(A), (B)
3719.19                         138.09
3719.99(C)                      138.14(C)
3719.99(E)                      138.15(C)
3767.201                        70.09(A)
3767.99(D)                      70.09(B)
3773.06                         137.09(D)
3773.99(A)                      137.09(D)
3780.36                         138.02(A) - (G)
3780.99                         138.02(H)
3781.55                         133.04(E)
3791.031                        135.26
4501.01(LL)                     70.01
4501.01(TT)                     72.061(G)
4503.05                         71.02
4503.11(A), (D)                 71.01(B), (G)(2)
4503.111                        71.01(C), (G)(3)
4503.12(A), (D)                 71.01(D), (G)(4)
4503.21                         71.01(A), (G)(1)
4503.236                        71.03
4505.18                         71.04
4506.01                         71.45
4506.011                        71.46
4506.03                         71.48(A) - (C), (G)
4506.04                         71.47(A), (B), (D)(1) - (3)
4506.05                         71.48(D) - (G)
4506.10(A), (E)                 71.49
4506.12(I), (J)                 71.47(C), (D)(3)
4506.15                         71.50(A), (D), (E)
4506.17(H), (N)                 71.50(B), (D)
4506.19                         71.51
4506.20                         71.52
4506.23                         71.50(C)
4506.99                         71.99
4507.02(A)                      71.22(A)
4507.03                         71.22(B)
4507.04                         71.22(C)
4507.05(F), (I)                 71.21(B), (K)
4507.071(B) - (J)               71.21(C) - (K)
4507.213                        71.22(D)
4507.30                         71.20
4507.31                         71.21(A), (K)
4507.321                        71.23
4507.35                         71.26
4507.36                         71.27
4507.99                         71.99
4509.102                        136.02(G)
4509.74                         73.33
4510.037                        71.28(C)
                                71.28(D),
4510.04                         71.30(H),
                                71.31(E), 71.32(D)
4510.05                         71.25(A)
4510.11                         71.28(A)
4510.111                        71.28(B)
4510.12                         71.29
4510.14                         71.30(A) - (F)
4510.15                         71.25(B), (C)
4510.16                         71.31(A) - (I)
4510.21                         71.32(A) - (C)
4510.44                         73.08
4511.01                         70.01
4511.03                         70.03
4511.031                        70.38
4511.04                         70.04(A) - (D)
4511.041                        70.04(E)
4511.042                        70.04(F)
4511.05                         70.05
4511.051                        70.06
4511.08                         70.07
4511.12                         70.30
4511.121                        70.30(A), (G)(1)
4511.13                         70.31(B) - (E), (G)(2)
4511.131                        70.32
4511.132                        70.33
4511.14                         70.34
4511.16                         70.35
4511.17                         70.36
4511.18                         70.37
4511.181                        73.01(N)
4511.19(A) - (M)                73.01(A) - (M)
4511.191(A), (D)                73.02(A), (H)
4511.192                        73.02(B) - (G)
4511.194                        73.03
4511.20                         73.05
4511.201                        73.06
4511.202                        73.07
4511.203                        71.24
4511.204                        72.131
4511.205                        72.132
4511.21(A) - (G), (O), (P)      73.10(A) - (G), (I), (K)(1)
4511.211                        73.10(J), (K)(2)
4511.213                        72.120(B) - (D)
4511.214                        73.16(A) - (D)
4511.215                        73.16(E), (F)
4511.216                        73.16(G)
4511.22                         73.11
4511.23                         73.13
4511.24                         73.12
4511.25                         72.001
4511.251                        73.09
4511.26                         72.003
4511.27                         72.004
4511.28                         72.005
4511.29                         72.006
4511.30                         72.007
4511.31                         72.008
4511.32                         72.009
4511.33                         72.010
4511.34                         72.011
4511.35                         72.012
4511.36                         72.013
4511.37                         72.014
4511.38                         72.015
4511.39                         72.016
4511.40                         72.017
4511.41                         72.030
4511.42                         72.031
4511.43                         72.032
4511.431                        72.033(A), (F)
4511.432                        72.033(B) - (F)
4511.44                         72.034
4511.441                        72.035
4511.45                         72.036(A) - (D)
4511.451                        72.037
4511.452                        72.038
4511.454                        72.036(E)
4511.46                         72.039
4511.47                         72.040
4511.48                         72.041
4511.481                        72.060
4511.49                         72.055
4511.491                        72.059
4511.50                         72.056
4511.51                         72.057
4511.511                        72.058
4511.512                        72.061(A) - (F)
4511.513                        72.062
4511.514                        72.063
4511.52                         75.01
4511.521                        75.02
4511.522                        75.03
4511.53                         75.04
4511.54                         75.05
4511.55                         75.06
4511.56                         75.07
4511.60                         72.002
4511.61                         72.075
4511.62                         72.076
4511.63                         72.077
4511.64                         72.078
4511.65                         70.10
4511.66                         76.01
4511.661                        76.02
4511.67                         76.03
4511.68                         76.04
4511.681                        76.06
4511.69                         76.05
4511.70                         72.115
4511.701                        72.116
4511.71                         72.117(A), (C)(1)
4511.711                        72.118(A), (C)
4511.712                        72.119
4511.713                        72.118(B), (C)
4511.714                        72.117(B), (C)(2), (D)
4511.72                         72.120(A), (C)
4511.73                         72.121
4511.74                         72.122(A), (B), (F)(1), (2)
4511.75                         72.090
4511.751                        72.091
4511.76(C), (H), (I)            72.092
4511.761                        72.093
4511.762                        72.094
4511.763                        72.095
4511.764                        72.096
4511.77                         72.097
4511.771                        72.098
4511.772                        72.099
4511.79                         73.04
4511.81(A) - (H), (K), (L)      72.123
4511.82                         72.122(C) - (E), (F)(3)
4511.84                         72.126
4511.85                         72.127
4511.99                         70.99(A)
4511.991                        70.99(B)
4513.02(A), (H)                 74.01
4513.021                        74.02
4513.03                         74.03
4513.04                         74.04
4513.05                         74.05
4513.06                         74.06
4513.07                         74.07
4513.071                        74.08
4513.08                         74.09(A)
4513.09                         74.10
4513.10                         74.11(A)
4513.11                         74.12(A)
4513.111                        74.12(B)
4513.112                        74.12(C)
4513.113                        74.12(D)
4513.114                        74.12(E)
4513.115                        74.12(F)
4513.12                         74.13
4513.13                         74.14
4513.14                         74.15
4513.15                         74.16
4513.16                         74.17
4513.17                         74.18(A) - (E), (G)
4513.171                        74.18(F), (G)
4513.18                         74.19
4513.181                        74.20
4513.182                        74.21(A), (B)
4513.19                         74.22
4513.20                         74.23(A)
4513.201                        74.24(A), (B)
4513.202                        74.25(A) - (C)
4513.21                         74.26
4513.22                         74.27
4513.23                         74.28
4513.24                         74.29
4513.241(C) - (J)               74.31(B), (C)(2)
4513.25                         74.30(A)
4513.26                         74.31(A)
4513.261                        74.32
4513.262                        74.33
4513.263                        72.124
4513.27                         74.34(A) - (C)
4513.28                         74.35
4513.29                         74.36(A)
4513.30                         74.51(A)
4513.31                         74.52(A), (B)
4513.32                         74.53(A)
4513.33                         74.54
4513.34                         74.50(A) - (E)
4513.36                         73.15(A), (B)
4513.361                        73.14
4513.50                         74.38(A)
4513.51(A), (B), (D)            74.38(B), (C)
4513.66                         70.12(A) - (C)
4513.68                         70.12(D) - (H)
                                74.11(B),
                                74.21(C),
                                74.23(B),
                                74.24(C),
                                74.25(D),
                                74.30(B),
4513.99                         74.31(C)(1),
                                74.34(D),
                                74.36(B),
                                74.50(F),
                                74.51(B),
                                74.52(C),
                                74.53(B)
4519.01                         75.25
4519.02                         75.34
4519.20                         75.26(A), (B), (D)(1)
4519.22                         75.26(C), (D)(2)
4519.40                         75.27
4519.401                        73.16(H)
4519.41                         75.28
4519.44                         75.29
4519.45                         75.30
4519.46                         75.31
4519.47                         75.32
4519.48                         75.33
4519.66                         75.35
4549.02                         73.30
4549.021                        73.31
4549.03                         73.32
4549.05                         70.11
4549.08                         71.06
4549.081(B), (C)                70.30(F), (G)(3)
4549.10                         71.07
4549.11                         71.01(E), (G)(5)
4549.12                         71.01(F), (G)(6)
4549.18                         71.05
4549.20                         74.39
4731.481                        138.17(A)
4731.99(F)                      138.17(B)
4734.161                        138.17(A)
4734.99(B)                      138.17(B)
4933.18                         131.32(A) - (C)
4933.19                         131.32(D)
5577.02                         74.55(A)
5577.03                         74.56(A)
5577.04                         74.56(B)
5577.041                        74.56(C)
5577.042                        74.61(A) - (D)
5577.043                        74.61(E) - (H)
5577.044                        74.61(I) - (K)
5577.045                        74.61(L)
5577.05                         74.57(A) - (H)
5577.06                         74.57(I)
5577.10                         74.58(A), (B)
5577.11                         74.59(A)
5577.12                         74.60
5577.15                         74.53(C)
5577.99(A)                      74.55(B)
5577.99(C)                      74.56(D)(1),
                                74.57(J)
5577.99(D)                      74.58(C)
5577.99(E)                      74.59(B)
5589.08                         72.128(A), (B)
5589.081                        74.37(A) - (C)
5589.12                         131.10(K)(1)
                                72.128(C),
5589.99(B)                      74.37(D),
                                131.10(K)(2)
                                
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. No.  Date Passed Description
R-5-95    - -1995     TSO Table II
R-4-96    - -1996     TSO Table II
R-5-96    - -1996     TSO Table II
R-10-2001 11-6-2001   TSO Table II
R-5-2004  - -2004     35.02
R-02-2006 7-18-2006   30.01
R-03-2013 - -2013     TSO Table II
R-01-2014 1-8-2014    36.03
R-03-2015 5-5-2015    TSO Table II
R-02-2017 - -2017     36.04
R-07-2018 9- -2018    36.01
R-05-2021 12-21-2021  TSO Table II
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      51.001 -
                      51.004,
                      51.015 -
                      51.032,
                      51.045 -
O-31-80   1-5-1981    51.073,
                      51.085 -
                      51.095,
                      51.105 -
                      51.135,
                      51.999
                      53.01 -
O-22-83   8-16-1983   53.08,
                      53.99
O-04-93   - -1993     TSO Table II
O-16-93   - -1993     TSO Table II
O-31-93   - -1993     Ch. 77 Sch. I
O-01-93   1- -1993    33.32
O-17-93   5-4-1993    TSO Table II
O-24-93   7-6-1993    32.30
O-30-93   10-5-1993   TSO Table IV
O-32-93   10-5-1993   TSO Table II
O-8-94    - -1994     33.02
O-15-94   - -1994     30.03
O-14-94   5- -1994    33.31
O-19-94   6-21-1994   TSO Table II
O-23-94   8-16-1994   TSO Table VI
O-24-94   9-20-1994   TSO Table IV
O-25-94   9-20-1994   TSO Table IV
O-3-95    - -1995     76.19
O-5-95    - -1995     51.032,
                      51.999
O-6-95    - -1995     31.02
O-8-95    - -1995     TSO Table II
O-9-95    - -1995     TSO Table VI
O-12-95   - -1995     TSO Table II
O-16-95   - -1995     TSO Table II
O-13-95   7-3-1995    TSO Table II
O-18-95   11-7-1995   TSO Table IV
O-19-95   11-7-1995   TSO Table IV
O-20-95   11-7-1995   TSO Table IV
O-18-96   - -1996     TSO Table I
O-06-96   4- -1996    TSO Table IV
O-07-96   5- -1996    TSO Table II
O-09-96   6- -1996    TSO Table V
O-14-96   9- -1996    TSO Table II
O-15-96   9- -1996    TSO Table VI
O-11-97   - -1997     TSO Table II
O-20-97   - -1997     32.33
O-07-97   2- -1997    TSO Table VI
O-08-97   2-18-1997   TSO Table VI
O-09-97   3- -1997    TSO Table VI
O-15-97   5- -1997    TSO Table II
O-16-97   5- -1997    TSO Table VI
O-27-97   7- -1997    TSO Table IV
O-19-97   8- -1997    90.01,
                      90.99
O-29-97   9- -1997    TSO Table II
O-34-97   10- -1997   TSO Table II
O-38-97   11-4-1997   TSO Table II
O-15-98   - -1998     32.32
O-11-98   3-3-1998    51.056
O-5-98    4- -1998    TSO Table II
O-08-98   6-2-1998    TSO Table I
O-13-98   8-18-1998   TSO Table II
O-17-98   11-17-1998  TSO Table II
O-19-98   12- -1998   TSO Table VI
O-05-99   - -1999     TSO Table III
O-06-99   4- -1999    TSO Table IV
O-08-99   5-18-1999   TSO Table II
O-12-99   7-6-1999    TSO Table VI
O-13-99   8-3-1999    TSO Table II
O-05-2000 3-8-2000    TSO Table II
O-07-2000 3-21-2000   TSO Table I
O-08-2000 4-4-2000    TSO Table VI
O-09-2000 4-27-2000   32.01
O-11-2000 5-16-2000   TSO Table II
O-15-2000 9-5-2000    TSO Table I
O-17-2000 9-5-2000    TSO Table II
O-20-00   9-5-2000    TSO Table II
O-22-99   9-19-2000   TSO Table II
O-22-00   10-17-2000  TSO Table II
O-06-01   4-3-2001    TSO Table II
O-07-01   4-3-2001    TSO Table II
                      93.01 -
O-08-01   5-15-2001   93.07,
                      93.99
O-10-2001 6-5-2001    72.133
O-14-2001 6-19-2001   TSO Table III
O-15-01   8-7-2001    Ch. 78 Sch. I
O-25-01   1-2-2002    33.30
O-01-2002 3-19-2002   TSO Table I
O-02-2002 3-19-2002   TSO Table I
O-05-2002 5-7-2002    TSO Table II
O-06-2002 6-4-2002    TSO Table II
O-07-2002 6-4-2002    TSO Table VI
O-09-2002 7-2-2002    TSO Table II
O-15-2002 10-15-2002  TSO Table VI
O-16-2002 10-15-2002  TSO Table VI
O-01-2003 1-22-2003   TSO Table II
O-02-2003 2-18-2003   31.04
O-4-2003  3-4-2003    TSO Table VI
O-07-2003 4-15-2003   90.02,
                      90.99
O-08-2003 4-15-2003   TSO Table III
O-11-03   6-17-2003   TSO Table II
O-16-2003 8-20-2003   TSO Table IV
O-18-2003 8-20-2003   TSO Table I
O-22-2003 10-21-2003  TSO Table VI
O-23-2003 10-21-2003  TSO Table VI
O-24-2003 10-21-2003  TSO Table VI
O-20-2003 11-4-2003   Ch. 77 Sch. II
O-05-2004 - -2004     TSO Table II
O-29-03   1-7-2004    TSO Table II
O-30-03   1-7-2004    TSO Table II
O-01-2004 1-20-2004   TSO Table II
O-07-2004 5-4-2004    30.03
O-08-2004 5-4-2004    TSO Table II
O-16-04   9-21-2004   TSO Table II
                      111.01 -
O-14-2004 11-16-2004  111.03,
                      111.99
O-20-2004 11-16-2004  92.15 -
                      92.19
O-23-04   1-3-2005    TSO Table II
O-01-2005 1-3-2005    TSO Table II
O-02-2005 2-2-2005    51.019
O-05-2005 3-1-2005    36.07
O-07-2005 3-1-2005    TSO Table II
O-12-05   6-21-2005   76.13,
                      76.15
O-13-2005 6-21-2005   TSO Table II
O-16-2005 8-2-2005    31.03
O-18-2005 8-16-2005   92.99
O-19-2005 8-16-2005   TSO Table VI
O-20-2005 10-18-2005  Ch. 78 Sch. I
O-21-2005 11-1-2005   TSO Table II
O-23-2005 12-7-2005   TSO Table II
O-24-2005 12-21-2005  TSO Table II
O-01-2006 3-7-2006    TSO Table I
O-05-2006 6-6-2006    TSO Table I
O-08-2006 6-6-2006    TSO Table VI
O-09-2006 6-6-2006    TSO Table II
O-10-2006 6-6-2006    TSO Table II
O-14-2006 9-19-2006   TSO Table VI
O-18-2006 9-19-2006   TSO Table II
O-22-2006 12-20-2006  31.01
O-21-2006 1-17-2007   50.02
O-04-2007 3-20-2007   51.114
O-08-2007 5-15-2007   TSO Table II
O-18-2007 10-16-2007  TSO Table II
O-19-2007 11-20-2007  76.99
                      52.01 -
O-20-2007 1-2-2008    52.07,
                      52.99
O-09-2008 5-6-2008    TSO Table II
O-05-2008 6-3-2008    51.021,
                      51.022
O-11-2008 6-17-2008   TSO Table II
O-17-2008 10-7-2008   90.03,
                      90.99
O-18-2008 10-7-2008   TSO Table II
O-19-2008 10-7-2008   TSO Table II
O-20-2008 12-16-2008  50.01
O-15-2009 - -2009     35.04
O-04-2009 3-17-2009   33.16
O-08-2009 5-19-2009   TSO Table II
O-07-2009 6-16-2009   TSO Table IV
O-09-2009 6-16-2009   TSO Table II
O-11-2009 6-16-2009   TSO Table II
O-14-2009 10-20-2009  TSO Table II
O-17-2009 1-5-2010    33.01
O-04-2010 4- -2010    TSO Table IV
O-05-2010 5-18-2010   151.01
O-06-2010 8-3-2010    35.05
O-10-2010 9- -2010    53.10
O-11-2010 9-21-2010   TSO Table II
O-15-2010 11-16-2010  TSO Table II
O-16-2010 12- -2010   TSO Table II
O-18-2010 12- -2010   TSO Table II
O-17-2010 1-5-2011    35.03
O-06-2011 3-23-2011   TSO Table II
O-07-2011 8-16-2011   TSO Table II
O-08-2011 9-6-2011    TSO Table II
O-10-2011 9-6-2011    72.018
O-11-2011 10-4-2011   TSO Table II
O-12-2011 10-4-2011   TSO Table II
O-13-2011 12-6-2011   TSO Table II
O-14-2011 12-6-2011   TSO Table II
O-19-2011 12-21-2011  TSO Table IV
O-05-2012 5-5-2012    TSO Table II
O-09-2012 6-5-2012    TSO Table II
O-10-2012 7-17-2012   TSO Table VI
O-11-2012 9-4-2012    53.09
O-13-2012 9-18-2012   TSO Table II
O-15-2012 11-6-2012   53.09,
                      53.99
O-16-2012 12- -2012   TSO Table II
O-05-2013 - -2013     33.03
O-29-2013 - -2013     TSO Table II
                      91.15 -
O-03-2013 3-19-2013   91.18,
                      91.99
O-13-2013 6-18-2013   TSO Table II
O-14-2013 8-6-2013    TSO Table II
O-20-2013 9-3-2013    53.09
O-21-2013 9-17-2013   TSO Table II
O-27-2013 10- -2013   TSO Table II
O-28-2013 11-19-2013  TSO Table II
O-07-2014 5-6-2014    76.18
O-13-2014 7-1-2014    TSO Table II
O-16-2014 8-19-2014   TSO Table II
O-18-2014 9-16-2014   TSO Table II
O-19-2014 12-17-2014  TSO Table II
O-10-2015 3-7-2015    TSO Table II
O-04-2015 3-17-2015   TSO Table II
O-08-2015 3-17-2015   TSO Table II
O-09-2015 3-17-2015   TSO Table II
O-18-2015 4-21-2015   TSO Table II
O-17-2015 5-19-2015   TSO Table II
O-22-2015 5-19-2015   36.06
O-23-2015 6-2-2015    TSO Table VI
O-25-2015 10-6-2015   TSO Table II
O-28-2015 10-6-2015   TSO Table II
O-34-2015 12-16-2015  TSO Table II
                      34.01 -
O-35-2015 12-16-2015  34.22,
                      34.99
O-01-2016 1-15-2016   TSO Table II
O-02-2016 2-13-2016   TSO Table II
O-07-2016 2-16-2016   33.18
O-16-2016 7-19-2016   TSO Table IV
O-19-2016 7-19-2016   32.16
O-21-2016 9-6-2016    TSO Table II
O-22-2016 9-22-2016   TSO Table II
O-24-2016 10-18-2016  Ch. 78 Sch. I
O-32-2016 12-28-2016  73.17
O-33-2016 12-28-2016  32.45 -
                      32.56
O-24-2017 - -2017     TSO Table I
O-01-2017 1-4-2017    TSO Table II
O-02-2017 1-4-2017    TSO Table II
                      150.01 -
O-05-2017 3-8-2017    150.09,
                      150.99
O-06-2017 3-8-2017    73.17
O-14-2017 6- -2017    TSO Table I
O-16-2017 6-20-2017   73.17
O-22-2017 9-19-2017   TSO Table II
O-23-2017 9-19-2017   TSO Table II
O-28-2017 12- -2017   TSO Table II
O-25-2017 12-5-2017   TSO Table II
O-06-2018 - -2018     TSO Table VI
O-07-2018 - -2018     TSO Table VI
O-09-2018 - -2018     31.05
O-10-2018 - -2018     TSO Table II
O-12-2018 - -2018     TSO Table II
O-15-2018 - -2018     TSO Table I
O-20-2018 - -2018     51.054
O-22-2018 - -2018     TSO Table II
O-26-2018 - -2018     34.01
O-30-2018 - -2018     TSO Table II
O-31-2018 - -2018     TSO Table IV
O-32-2018 - -2018     TSO Table II
O-35-2018 - -2018     35.04
O-37-2018 - -2018     TSO Table II
O-01-2018 1-4-2018    TSO Table I
O-02-2018 1-4-2018    TSO Table I
O-06-2018 4-17-2018   TSO Table VI
O-07-2018 4-17-2018   TSO Table VI
O-01-2019 - -2019     TSO Table II
O-02-2019 - -2019     TSO Table II
O-06-2019 - -2019     51.057,
                      51.115
O-07-2019 - -2019     93.20,
                      93.21
O-09-2019 - -2019     TSO Table I
O-13-2019 - -2019     TSO Table II
O-15-2019 - -2019     TSO Table II
O-24-2019 - -2019     36.02
O-34-2019 - -2019     TSO Table II
O-35-2019 - -2019     76.16
O-40-2019 - -2019     51.031
O-03-2019 2-6-2019    TSO Table II
O-36-2018 3- - 2019   35.01
O-14-2019 4-16-2019   TSO Table VI
O-38-2019 11-19-2019  TSO Table II
O-08-2020 - -2020     33.15
O-11-2020 - -2020     TSO Table I
O-17-2020 - -2020     TSO Table II
O-25-2020 - -2020     TSO Table VI
O-29-2020 - -2020     TSO Table II
O-34-2020 - -2020     TSO Table IV
O-35-2020 - -2020     TSO Table II
O-36-2020 - -2020     TSO Table II
O-37-2020 - -2020     TSO Table II
O-42-2020 - -2020     76.17
O-44-2020 - -2020     TSO Table IV
O-02-2020 2- -2020    32.34
O-03-2020 2- -2020    32.31
O-20-2020 5-5-2020    TSO Table IV
O-19-2020 5-19-2020   92.15
O-18-2020 6-16-2020   TSO Table VI
O-26-2020 8-18-2020   51.015,
                      51.033
O-31-2020 9-1-2020    TSO Table III
O-45-2020 12- -2020   TSO Table II
                      153.001 -
                      153.008,
                      153.020 -
                      153.026,
                      153.040 -
                      153.043,
                      153.055 -
                      153.067,
                      153.080 -
                      153.083,
                      153.095 -
                      153.100,
O-38-2020 12-14-2020  153.110 -
                      153.116,
                      153.130 -
                      153.139,
                      153.150 -
                      153.152,
                      153.165 -
                      153.176,
                      153.190 -
                      153.195,
                      153.205 -
                      153.212,
                      153.999
O-24-2021 - -2021     TSO Table II
O-26-2021 - -2021     36.05
O-29-2021 - -2021     53.03
O-31-2021 - -2021     TSO Table II
O-02-2021 2-3-2021    52.07
O-10-2021 2-16-2021   TSO Table II
O-14-2021 4-6-2021    TSO Table II
O-17-2021 6-1-2021    TSO Table II
O-19-2021 7-6-2021    TSO Table II
                      152.001 -
                      152.010,
                      152.020 -
                      152.032,
                      152.045 -
                      152.062,
                      152.075 -
                      152.082,
O-28-2021 11-16-2021  152.095 -
                      152.107,
                      152.120 -
                      152.125,
                      152.135 -
                      152.138,
                      152.999,
                      Ch. 152 App. A -
                      App. F
O-34-2021 12- -2021   TSO Table II
O-39-2021 1-18-2022   32.15
O-04-2022 2-1-2022    76.14
O-5-2022  2-1-2022    10.19
O-12-2022 3-1-2022    32.02
O-22-2022 5-17-2022   33.17
O-19-2022 6-7-2022    91.01,
                      91.99
O-29-2022 6-19-2022   91.02,
                      91.99
O-31-2022 8-2-2022    153.101
O-36-2022 9-6-2022    Ch. 78 Sch. I
O-37-2022 9-20-2022   10.20
O-44-2022 9-20-2022   92.02
O-41-2022 10-4-2022   91.99
O-47-2022 11-1-2022   153.057,
                      153.064
O-8-2023  6-20-2023   153.008,
                      153.097
O-7-2023  7-5-2023    TSO Table VI
O-20-2023 11-21-2023  Adopting Ordinance
O-2-2024  2-6-2024    153.101
O-4-2024  2-20-2024   35.06
                      90.04,
O-5-2024  2-20-2024   90.05,
                      90.99
O-11-2024 5-7-2024    32.35
O-12-2024 6-4-2024    32.36
O-13-2024 6-18-2024   53.03
O-15-2024 - -2024     153.101
O-17-2024 8-6-2024    92.02
O-20-2024 8-20-2024   153.098
O-19-2024 9-3-2024    153.008,
                      153.068
O-22-2024 11-5-2024   34.06
O-28-2024 12-17-2024  TSO Table II
O-27-2024 2-4-2025    93.30 -
                      93.35
                     
 
 
Comprehensive Ordinance List
Publisher's Note: The following table lists all ordinances passed by the
Village of Strasburg. The table includes links to the ordinances, as maintained
in PDF format. For other legislation, including ordinances passed prior to
2023, please contact the Village of Strasburg.
 
Ordinances that amend the Code and are not yet effective have their
identifiying information highlighted in yellow. Changes made by those
ordinances are not incorporated into the text of the Code until the amending
ordinances are effective. Ordinances that do not affect the code have been
grayed out.
 
Jump to:
2023 Ordinances
2024 Ordinances
2023 Ordinances
 
Ord. No. Eff. Date  Short Title and Code Sections Affected
20-2023  11-21-2023 Adopting code of ordinances for Village of Strasburg
                   
                   
 
2024 Ordinances
Ord. No. Eff. Date Short Title and Code Sections Affected
Ord.  Eff. Short Title and Code Sections Affected
No.   Date
R-    4-2- Authorizing Village Administrator or Street Superintendent to implement §§
2024- 2024 55.01-55.15 with appropriation of $20,000
4
O-2-  2-
2024  26-  Amending § 153.101, regulating marijuana related uses
      2024
O-4-  2-   Regulating nuisance feral animals, enacting §§ 90.04 and 90.05, and amending
2024  20-  § 90.99
      2024
O-5-  2-   Enacting § 35.06, temporary premiun pay for certain employees covering for
2024  20-  supervisory employees
      2024
O-11- 5-7- Enacting § 32.321
2024  204
O-12- 6-   Adopting by reference Lexipol policies for governance of policy department
2024  12-  and enacting § 32.35
      204
O-13- 6-
2024  18-  Amending § 53.03(D)
      2024
O-15-     Amending Ord. O-2-2024 and § 153.101
2024
O-17- 8-6- Amending and restating § 92.02
2024  2024
O-19- 9-3- Amending § 153.008 and enacting § 153.068
2024  2024
O-20- 8-
2024  20-  Amending § 153.098
      2024
          
 
 
 
